{{howto| use the [[ActiveX]] control within a webpage|nosort=yes}}
{{Example code}}

==Embedding Activex using Javascript==

You can insert the [[ActiveX]] control in your HTML pages like this :

<syntaxhighlight lang="html4strict">
  <OBJECT classid="clsid:9BE31822-FDAD-461B-AD51-BE1D1C159921"
     codebase="https://downloads.videolan.org/pub/videolan/contrib/win32/axvlc.cab"
        width="640" height="480" id="vlc" events="True">
  <param name="Src" value="" />
  <param name="ShowDisplay" value="True" />
  <param name="AutoLoop" value="False" />
  <param name="AutoPlay" value="False" />
  </OBJECT>
</syntaxhighlight>

Then, using JavaScript, you can select another source, or change the audio track :

<syntaxhighlight lang="javascript">
  document.vlc.playlistClear();
  var options=[":audio-track=5"]; // select audio track 5 (=6th, 1st is 0)
  document.vlc.addTarget("...",options,2,0); // replace entry 0
  document.vlc.play();
</syntaxhighlight>

See [https://web.archive.org/web/20081218063905/http://people.videolan.org/~damienf/plugin-0.8.6.html http://people.videolan.org/~damienf/plugin-0.8.6.html (Internet Archive)] for a complete demo.

==Embedding ActiveX using m3u Playlists==
Maybe a better to show VLC in an HTML Website is to use [[m3u]] Playlists. It has got the advantage that users with turned-off JavaScript can also use this plugin, since <code>document.vlc.addTarget()</code> won't work with JavaScript turned off.

* Step 1: Create the HTML website with the VLC-Object linked to the m3u playlist
* Step 2: Create your m3u playlist with all options, save and upload it to your webspace.
* Step 3 (optional): Create buttons and other objects to [[control VLC]] (like <code>document.vlc.play();</code>)


'''Step 1: Creating the website to embed ActiveX Control'''
<syntaxhighlight lang="html4strict">
 <!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Frameset//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/frameset.dtd">
 < HTML >
   <BODY marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" topmargin="0" leftmargin="0">
     <OBJECT classid="clsid:E23FE9C6-778E-49D4-B537-38FCDE4887D8"
         codebase="https://downloads.videolan.org/pub/videolan/contrib/win32/axvlc.cab"
         width="400" height="300" id="vlc" events="True">
       <param name="Src" value="myplaylist.m3u" />
       <param name="ShowDisplay" value="True" />
       <param name="AutoLoop" value="True" />
       <param name="AutoPlay" value="True" />
       <param name="Volume" value="100">
     </OBJECT>
   </BODY>
 < /HTML >
</syntaxhighlight>

You should modify the values of width, height and volume (0-100) fitting to your desires. If you don't know them, simply delete them (e.g. remove <code>width="640"</code> from the code).

'''Step 2: Creating the m3u playlist'''

Open Notepad, create your playlist and save it as 'myplaylist.m3u' for this example.

 #EXTM3U                                     // Required to identify this file as m3u file
 #EXTVLCOPT--input-repeat=-1                 // repeat the following file/playlist
 #EXTVLCOPT--http-reconnect=true             // required for a streaming-client to enable repeat
 #EXTVLCOPT--any further parameter goes here // see also [[VLC command-line help]]
 #EXTINF:0, Test Description                 // set the title for the following file shown in your playlist
 video.mpg                                // the actual file to be displayed

'''Annotations:'''
* For actual looping of the entire playlist, the user has to have check 'Repeat all' under Preferences --> Playlist --> General
* Mind that options have different names if you play a file locally or if you want to stream it (--sub-filter --> --s-filter)


'''Mind the different Options-styles:'''
  --option  A global option that is set for the duration of the program.
   -option  A single letter version of a global --option.
   :option  An option that only applies to the playlistitem directly before it
            and that overrides previous settings.

==Known Problems and how to solve them==

'''Problem'''

A know problem is, that the VLC-Plugin won't be displayed. Instead, you are asked whether you want to install the VLC-ActiveX-Component. "Don't install" cancels the installation and nothing happens. "Install" runs the usual VLC-Setup (mind to install the ActiveX-Plugin), but after reopening an HTML-page with the VLC-Plugin, it's the same situation as before.

'''Solution'''

* Use the "other" ClassID in your HTML-Source as shown above:
:<syntaxhighlight lang="html4strict">
 <OBJECT classid="clsid:9BE31822-FDAD-461B-AD51-BE1D1C159921" ...
</syntaxhighlight>

* You have to lower the security settings on your PC. '''Do this at your own risk! Use [https://www.getfirefox.com Firefox] to browse the web!'''

* In Internet Explorer select [Tools], [Internet Options]. The "Internet Options" window opens. Select the Tab "Advanced". Scroll down until you see the main point "Security". 

* Check the following entries:
** Allow active content to CDs to run on My Computer
** Allow active content to run in files on My Computer
** Allow software to run or install even if the signature is invalid

* Instead of lowering security level, you can add the website address to the right security area.

==See also==
* [[ActiveX/Delphi]] for a Delphi implementation
* [[ActiveX]] for a description of ActiveX

[[Category:Development‏‎]]