This guide will help you compile {{VLC}} for your platform.

This guide is intended for '''developers''' and '''power users'''. Compiling VLC is not an easy task.

You should come on [[IRC]] to assist you during this phase.

'''<span style="color:red; font-size: 120%">Warning</span>:''' Please, do not put pre-release test binaries or git-compiles on software sites or on user-forums. We've had bad experiences with this before and we do not appreciate it.

== Generic Steps  ==

These are the main steps to follow to compile VLC&nbsp;: 

# Prepare your compile environment, 
# Grab the [[GetTheSource|source]] of {{VLC}}, 
# Bootstrap, using the ./bootstrap script, if you took the code from repository, 
# Prepare the extras libraries needed for {{VLC}}, read the [[Contrib Status|list]], 
# [[Configure]],
# Build, using make,
# and Profit!

== Compile for one Operating System ==
There are the special compile guides for every OS you want VLC.

Desktop:
* [[Win32Compile|Windows]]
* [[OSXCompile|macOS]]
* [[UnixCompile|Linux, BSD or other Unices]]
* [[Solaris|Solaris]]

Mobile:
* [[AndroidCompile|Android]]
* [[iOSCompile|iOS]]
* [[WinRTCompile|WinRT]]

OLD:
* [[WinCECompile|How to compile for WinCE]] (outdated)
* [[BeOSCompile|How to compile on BeOS]] (outdated)
* [[ARMCompileOldPDA|How to cross-compile for old ARM-based PDAs]] (outdated)

== Other compile guides ==
* [[OutOfTreeCompile|How to compile a module outside of VLC source tree]]
* [[DirectFB_Compile|Compile DirectFB plugin]]
* [[Contrib_Status|Contrib Status]] - 3rd party libraries status.
* [[Packagers|Links to the packaging in various distros]]

See also [[:Category:Operating systems]].

[[Category:Coding]]