= Changes between 0.8.6 and 0.9.0 =

== Important notes ==
* This version of VLC contains a [[Qt Interface|new interface]] for Windows and Linux. This interface lacks a few features that used to be present in vlc 0.8.6:
** "Streaming wizard" and "VLM control". These features will be replaced by a better alternative in the next version. If you absolutely need these features, we advise you to keep vlc 0.8.6
** Similarly, "Bookmarks" will be reintroduced in an improved version at a later point
* The default Interface is now [[Qt Interface]] on linux and windows.
* The default for --sout-keep has changed. It's now activated by default.
* The marq, mosaic and logo commands in the [[Console#rc interface|rc interface]] changed. They now require a target name as their first argument. Example:
:<pre>vlc --sub-filter "marq@test{marquee=Hello}" -I rc <somevideo> </pre>
:You can then use commands like: <pre>@test marq-marquee Goodbye</pre>
:These new commands are also available in the [[Console#telnet interface|telnet interface]].

* The [[HTTP Interface]] is now only available on the local machine by default.
: If you want to make it available from other machines, you will have to edit the ".hosts" file.
:* On UNIX/Linux, the file is in /usr/share/vlc/http/.hosts
:: If you're using the old http interface, it's located in /usr/share/vlc/http/old/.hosts
:* On Windows they are in C:\Program Files\VideoLAN\VLC\http\.hosts and C:\Program Files\VideoLAN\VLC\http\old\.hosts
:* On Mac OS X, you can find it in VLC.app/Contents/MacOS/share/http/.hosts and respectively in VLC.app/Contents/MacOS/share/http/old/.hosts

* The "[[RTP|rtp]]" access output module has been removed: 
: Please use the RTP stream output instead, e.g.: 
: Old: '#std{access=rtp,dst=239.255.1.2,sap}' 
: New: '#rtp{dst=239.255.1.2,sap}' 

== Important Changes ==

=== Playlist ===
* Vastly improved playlist support:
** [[Media library]] support
** "Live search"
** [[Shoutcast]] TV listings
** [http://www.audioscrobbler.net/ Audioscrobbler]/[http://www.last.fm/ last.fm] support
* Album art support
* User definable Lua playlist scripts. See [http://trac.videolan.org/vlc/browser/trunk/share/luaplaylist/README.txt share/luaplaylist/README.txt]
:(Default scripts open YouTube, DailyMotion, metacafe and Google Video URLs)
* User definable Lua metadata and album art fetcher scripts. See [http://trac.videolan.org/vlc/browser/trunk/share/luameta/README.txt share/luameta/README.txt]

=== Input/Demuxers ===
* [[UDP-Lite]] transport for [[RTP]]/[[AVP]]
* [[DCCP]] transport for [[RTP]]/[[AVP]]
* Proxy support for [[MMSH]] stream
* [[JACK]] audio input support
* MP4 gpac and Apple chapter support
* Input run time option (improved live stream recording)
* Fixed aiff stereo file
* Fixed audio glitch on seek
* Improved FLAC demuxer (duration / current time / meta data)
* AAC tags support
* APEv1/2 tags support
* Improved ID3v2 tags support
* Improved Ogg/Vorbis tags support
* Raw video support
* Standard MIDI File (types 0 & 1) support
* Tivo Series 2 support
* v4l2 access module support
* CD+G karaoke Files support
* MXF files support

=== Decoders ===
* [[VP6|VP60/VP61/VP6F/VP62]] support
* [[MKV]] [[USF]] subtitles support
* HTML based subtitles support
* Flash Screen Video support
* CamStudio Screen Video support
* DOSBox Capture support
* Karl Morton's Video support
* limited atrac3 support
* Fluidsynth MIDI software synthesis (with external sound fonts)
* New codec FOURCCs to support more specific files: Avid, FCP, Sony, Samsung, ...
* Closed Caption Decoder (DVD, ReplayTV, Tivo, DVB/ATSC)
* H.264 PAFF support
* DNxHD / VC-3 support
* NellyMoser ASAO support
* APE (Monkey audio) support
* VBI & EBU (Teletext) support

=== Encoders ===
* Flash Screen Video support

=== Video output and filters ===
* [[Documentation:Modules/adjust|Adjust]], [[Documentation:Modules/invert|Invert]] and [[Documentation:Modules/distort|Distort]] (now split into [[Documentation:Modules/wave|Wave]], [[Documentation:Modules/ripple|Ripple]], [[Documentation:Modules/gradient|Gradient]] and [[Documentation:Modules/psychedelic|Psychedelic]]) video filters can now be streamed
* New [[Documentation:Modules/puzzle|puzzle]] video output filter
* Rewrite [[Documentation:Modules/motion control|motion detection]] video filter
* New [[Documentation:Modules/extract|extract]] video filter (extract Red, Green and Blue components from a video)
* New [[Documentation:Modules/sharpen|sharpen]] video filter (increase the contrast of adjacent pixels)
* New [[Documentation:Modules/erase|erase]] video filter (remove a logo from a video)
* Enhancements to subtitles' renderer to support bold, italics and some HTML tags
* Support for RGBA and I420 blending. This improves [[Mosaic]] CPU usage *a lot*.
* New transparency mask video filter (for use with the mosaic_bridge module).
* New bluescreen video filter (for use with the mosaic_bridge module). This was previously part of the mosaic module.
* Fix random characters problem in RSS filter.
* Add rotate-deciangle for more precision on rotate filter
* Support for Intel SSE2 intruction set in chroma converters
* Improved use of Intel MMX intruction set in chroma converters

=== Audio output and filters ===
* Replay gain support.
* Play audio when going slower/faster ( no pitch filter yet ).
* New spatializer audio filter.

=== Stream output ===
* RTSP for TS-multiplexed broadcast streams
* New RTP payload formats:
** Speex voice audio codec
** ITU T.140 (for text, subtitles) output
** G.711 (both A-law and µ-law) output
* UDP-Lite transport for RTP
* DCCP transport for RTP
* Lots of fixes for RTSP broadcasting

=== Interfaces ===
* Windows/Linux
** Brand [[Qt4 Interface|new interface]] for Linux and Windows, based on the Qt toolkit
* All
** Improved user interaction
** Improved [[Mouse Gestures|mouse gestures]]
** Experimental Lua interface modules. See vlc -I lua for more info 
* Unix
** Option to allow only one running instance, using [[D-Bus]] interface.
** [[D-Bus]] Interface implementing the MPRIS (Media Player Remote Interfacing specification - see [[DBus-spec]]), a common dbus control interface for media players that intends to become an xdg standard when finished: [http://wiki.xmms2.xmms.se/index.php/Media_Player_Interfaces].
* Motion module use disk accelerometers to keep video horizontal
* Ncurses interface now uses ncursesw to correctly display wide characters when using an UTF-8 locale.
* Plugin to set Telepathy presence message using MissionControl

=== Linux Port ===
* VLC now complies with the [http://standards.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-0.6.html XDG Base Directory Specification version 0.6] (which means that VLC doesn't use the $HOME/.vlc directory anymore)

=== Mac OS X Port ===
* Mac OS X Framework that can be used to embed VLC in third party applications. (Google Summer Of Code Student project).

=== LibVLC ===
* Event management and various improvement in libvlc. (Part of a Google Summer Of Code Student project).

=== Capture ===
* new [[BDA]] device driver plugin for [[DVB]]-C/S/T capture cards on Microsoft Windows

=== Localisations ===
* Finnish
* Persian
* Polish

== Changes in between ==
Links to changelogs between:
:[[Changelog/0.8.6i|0.8.6h and 0.8.6i]]
:[[Changelog/0.8.6h|0.8.6g and 0.8.6h]]<br/>
:[[Changelog/0.8.6g|0.8.6f and 0.8.6g]]<br/>
:[[Changelog/0.8.6f|0.8.6e and 0.8.6f]]<br/>
:[[Changelog/0.8.6e|0.8.6d and 0.8.6e]]<br/>
:[[Changelog/0.8.6d|0.8.6c and 0.8.6d]]<br/>
:[[Changelog/0.8.6c|0.8.6b and 0.8.6c]]<br/>
:[[Changelog/0.8.6b|0.8.6a and 0.8.6b]]<br/>
:[[Changelog/0.8.6a|0.8.6 and 0.8.6a]]<br/>

[[Category:Changelog]]