{{DISPLAYTITLE:VideoLAN Code of Conduct}}

You should check out our [[VideoLAN_Values|shared values]].

= Communications rules =
The following rules apply to all means of communication, online and in real life.
* Do not use foul language, and absolutely NO insults will be tolerated.
* Be careful with direct criticism:
** Focus on the possible improvements and do not make the issue a personal one.
** You should, when possible, criticize in private, and praise publicly; since most of our communications are public and people can be sensitive about that.
* ''Ad hominem'' attacks are not accepted.
* Do not flame or troll; it is not funny.
* Do not undo someone's else contribution (wiki edits, code reverts, etc...) without asking first.
* Send all communication in English.
** The ''videolan@'' mailing list, wiki translated pages, and forum-specific topics allow different languages, when clearly flagged.
* Do not send spam.
* Do not abuse administrative powers.
* These Code of Conduct rules are not exhaustive; please use common sense, to infer other rules.

== Mailing lists ==
When using the VideoLAN mailing lists, please follow also these simple rules:

* The mailing lists exist to foster the development and use of VideoLAN. Unconstructive and off-topic messages, along with other abuse, are not welcome.
* Make sure that you are using the proper list. In particular, don't send user-related questions to developer mailing lists.
* If you want to explain to someone how to use a mailing list, please do it privately.
* Do not quote messages that were sent to you by other people in private mail, unless agreed beforehand.
* When replying to messages on the mailing list, do not send a carbon copy (CC) to the original poster unless they explicitly requested to be copied. When replying on a private mailing list, this does not apply as the recipient would not be able to read the reply otherwise.
* If you send messages to lists to which you are not subscribed, always note that fact in the body of your message.

=== Mailing list Etiquette ===
* Wrap your lines at 80 characters or less for ordinary discussion. Lines longer than 80 characters are acceptable for computer-generated output (e.g., ls -l).
* Avoid top-posting in conversations.
* Avoid HTML-only messages; have a plain text version instead.
* Avoid sending large attachments; mails with attachments over 65kb will have to be moderated by administrators.
* Do not send automated "out-of-office" or "vacation" messages.
* Do not send "test" messages to determine whether your mail client is working. We have a [https://mailman.videolan.org/listinfo/test test mailing list] for that.
* Do not send subscription or unsubscription requests to the list address itself; use the respective -request address instead.

== IRC ==
When using the VideoLAN IRC channels, please follow these rules:
* Do not quote messages that were sent to you by other people in private query, unless agreed beforehand.
* If you want to explain to someone how to use IRC, do it privately.
* Never send messages with colours (i.e. colour codes); use plain text instead.
* Do not send "test" messages to determine whether your IRC client is working. We have a #test channel for that.

== Forum ==
* Do not bump a topic several times per day.
* Do not cross-post your question across sub-forums.
* Do not edit your past posts overly often.

== Bugtrackers ==
* Do not change priority or importance lightly.

== Code repositories: Git / SVN / HG ==
* Do NOT engage in revert wars.
* Do NOT delete another developer's commit without approval by using push --force.
* No insult in commits or commit messages.
* Respect the correct [http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/ commit log style].

== Real life, Conferences, Meetings and Assemblies ==
* Absolutely no violence will be tolerated,
* "No" means "'''No'''",
* You get one warning from the board first, and then you're out,
* This also applies for the community day of [[VDD]].

=  Disciplinary actions =
Violations of the Code of Conduct will be punished.

See the following guidelines for escalations steps and sanctions.

== Escalation ==

# The first violation will always result in a simple warning, except if it is a grave or deliberate violation.
# The following violations will result in some of the disciplinary actions listed in the paragraphs below.
# For repetitive violations, the case may be escalated to the VideoLAN board and general assembly for further disciplinary actions.

In case of any disciplinary action, a VideoLAN board member will send an email to the offender and copy the association mailing list.

== Disciplinary Actions ==

The following disciplinary actions may be enforced when a direct Code of Conduct violation is reported.

'''NB:''' Before applying any of those following disciplinary policies, the VideoLAN board will try to discuss the problem with the offender in order to solve it in a more peaceful way.<br />
However, it is possible for the board to apply the penalty without discussions in severe Code of Conduct violations.

=== Mailing lists ===
* The netiquette violations will get only a warning. Repeated netiquette violations will be escalated.
* 24-hour ban from the mailing list in question.
* Every third violation, the contributor will get a 7-day ban.
* As one cannot develop without the mailing lists, a ban from a *-devel mailing list will result in a ban from commit access for one day on the related project.
* For spam violations, the first ban can be longer or infinite.

=== IRC ===
* Direct kick for minor violations, enforced by channels ops.
* Other violations will get a 24-hour ban from the IRC channel.
* Every third violation, the offender will have a 7-day ban.

=== Forum ===
* Direct ban and account deletion for spam.
* 24-hour ban from the forum website.
* Every third violation, the offender will have a 1-month ban.

=== Bugtracker ===
* 24-hour ban from trac.
* Removal of developer or admin rights.
* Every third violation, the offender will be banned for 7 days.
* Every third violation, a developer may lose commit access for 7 days.

=== Wiki ===
* 24-hour ban from the wiki.
* Removal of developer or admin rights.
* Every third violation, the offender will be banned for 7 days.

=== Code repositories ===
* 24-hour ban from commit access.
* Removal of gitosis admin rights.
* Every third violation, the developer will lose commit access for 7 days.

[[Category:About VideoLAN]]
[[Category:Events|*]]