==Options that communicate directly with VLC==

*It is possible to use the http interface directly from Browser although is is somewhat cumbersome as it isn't designed for such a small screen.
**[[Control VLC via a browser]]

*[https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=adarshurs.android.vlcmobileremote VLC Mobile Remote] android app developed by Adarsh Urs with good user interface is easy to use, includes all the basic as well as advanced controls of VLC and it is free. Setup Wizard in the app makes it easy to setup VLC and automatically connects the PC/Mac to android device.
** Watch full [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2wu1vQDazNY VLC setup instructions video] on Youtube from [http://vlcmobileremote.com VLC Mobile Remote].

*[http://www.hobbyistsoftware.com Hobbyist Software] have produced two native applications which allow control of VLC from within a normal Android app. They also provide [http://www.hobbyistsoftware.com/VLCSetup setup helper applications] for Windows and Mac OS which simplify the process of enabling the http interface in VLC.
**[http://hobbyistsoftware.com/android/vlc-remote-free VLC Remote Free] allows control of basic functions like play, pause, stop, volume, etc
**[http://hobbyistsoftware.com/android/vlc-remote VLC Remote] is a paid version which additionally allows selecting of files and playlist management as well as more advanced features such as aspect ratio, subtitles, etc.
*[http://www.banamalon.net/android/ Banamalon] has developed two native applications to control VLC with your [https://www.appaustic.com/android-app-development Android Device]. There is a step by step [http://www.banamalon.net/android/?page_id=19#vlc tutorial] available on how to setup the web-interface correctly.
**VLC - Remote LIGHT is a the free version and allows you to use basic functions like play, pause, stop, volume, seekbar, fullscreen, etc.
**[http://www.banamalon.net/android/?p=305 VLC - Remote PRO] is a paid version in which you are able to fully use [http://www.banamalon.net/android/?p=388 HomeMedia] (Windows is necessary). For example you can start VLC remotly with you android device.

*[https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.vlcforandroid.vlcdirectprofree VLC Direct Pro Free] Is a free application in which you are able to fully control VLC remotely and also stream videos, music and photos from VLC to an android Device and from the android device to VLC. It supports a wide range of video, music, image and subtitle formats. VLC Direct official Web Site [http://www.vlcdirect.com HERE]

*[https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.maxdev.android.shaketest VLC Shake Remote] Is a free app to use your Android device as remote control for VLC running on your PC. Sit down on the coach and watch your favorite show on TV controlling VLC with your mobile, you can control position, volume, play, pause, stop, previous/next track, add/remove files to the playlist, shake control, just shake your mobile to mute/pause/skip track (even with screen locked), assign function to your mobile volume keys (even with screen locked)

[[Category:Android]]
[[Category:Control VLC]]
[[Category:How To]]