__NOTOC__
{{RightMenu|Documentation TOC}}

This is the user guide for the VLC media player.

==VLC User Guide==
*[[Documentation:Quick_start_guide|Quick start guide]]: How to start with VLC.
*[[Documentation:Installing VLC|Installation]]: Installation instructions for several systems.
*[[Documentation:History|History]]: Overview and history of the VideoLAN project.

==Usage==
*[[Documentation:Interface|Interface]]: The main interface of {{VLC}}.
**[[Documentation:Play_HowTo/Basic_Use/Interface_OSX|OSX Interface]]
**[[Documentation:Play_HowTo/Basic_Use/Interface_Windows|Windows/Linux Interface]]
*[[Documentation:Open Media|Open Media]]: Open every media you want, the way you want.
*[[Documentation:Audio|Audio]]: Visualization, selection of devices...
*[[Documentation:Video|Video]]: Cropping, snapshots and screenshots...
*[[Documentation:Playback|Playback]]: Navigation through media files (e.g. chapters, bookmarks).
*[[Documentation:Playlist|Playlist]]: Creating and managing playlists.
*[[Documentation:Subtitles|Subtitles]]: Selection of subtitles
*[[Documentation:Video and Audio Filters|Video and Audio Filters]]: Usage of VLC's filters (equalizer, video filters) 
*[[Documentation:Snapshots|Snapshots]]: How to create snapshots and screenshots.
*[[Documentation:Hotkeys|Hotkeys]]: Configuration of VLC's hotkeys
*[[VLC Uninstall|Uninstallation]]: Uninstallation instructions.
*[[VSG:Main|Troubleshooting]]: The VLC Support Guide, an informal, step-by-step guide for troubleshooting most common issues with VLC.

==Advanced Usage==
*[[Documentation:WebPlugin|Using VLC inside a webpage]]: How to create webpages that use the VLC Web plugin.
*[[Documentation:Command_line|Command line]]: Main command line instructions.
*[[Documentation:Alternative_Interfaces|Alternative Interfaces]] : HTTP interface and other control interface.
*[[Documentation:Misc|Misc]] : Miscellaneous other things.

==Appendix==
*[[Documentation:Building Pages for the HTTP Interface|Building Pages for the HTTP Interface]]
*[[Documentation:Format String|Format String]]
*[[Documentation:Building Lua Playlist Scripts|Building Lua Playlist Scripts]]
*[[Documentation:Play HowTo/Basic Use 0.8| VLC Use 0.8]]. (Versions older than 0.9).


{{Documentation}} [[Category:How To]]

Copyright &copy; 2002-2009 the VideoLAN project.