Is anyone seriously planing to write this VLC for dummies guide? [[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 16:25, 22 January 2008 (CET)

Yes, I would find this extremely useful, since to quote Sgt Schulz "I know nothing." [[User:Denise Tzumli|Denise Tzumli]]

July 2010... I surely wish someone would write this VLC for Dummies guide.  I cannot find any way to get information about the problems I am having with VLC.  I cannot understand 97% of the writings I have found.  Every word written in the videolan wiki seems to be geared towards computer experts, with absolutely nothing for we Sgt Schultzes of the world.  ps. hello Denise and hello Dionoea.  I cannot help but wonder if either of you ever began to understand... (GypsieCowboy@hotmail.com)

ok i've update the page quite a bit, will be putting some video tutorials later on --[[User:J4n|Jan]] 19:03, 5 February 2012 (UTC)

== Interface overview ==

The picture has a link to http://wiki.videolan.org/File:Interface1.png, which I would expect to be another picture, maybe bigger one, but instead it redirects you to the home page of the wiki. I guess the linked picture is missing.

: Yes, please do a better one. [[User:J-b|jb]] 16:53, 10 December 2012 (CET)

== Track slider ==

This section uses the expression "track slider" to refer both to the circle that you can drag to change the track position and the set of controls that includes the blue bar and the timers. A disambiguation would be useful here: Which of the two is the track slider? Or do both of them have the same name?

: the track slider is a bad word, and should not be used. The circle should be called the "seek knob" and the blue bar, in which the circle lives, is the "seek bar" or "seek slider". The timers are outside of it. [[User:J-b|jb]] 16:59, 10 December 2012 (CET)