{{RightMenu|documentation streaming howto toc}}

==Receive a stream with VLC==

===Receive an unicast stream===

 {{%}} '''vlc -vvv rtp://'''

===Receive a multicast stream===

 {{%}} '''vlc -vvv rtp://@239.255.12.42'''
where '''239.255.12.42''' is the multicast IP address you want to join.

===Receive an HTTP/FTP/MMS stream===

Use one of the following command lines:

 {{%}} '''vlc -vvv http://example/stream.xyz'''
where '''http://example/stream.xyz''' is the HTTP address of the stream;

 {{%}} '''vlc -vvv ftp://example/stream.xyz'''
where '''ftp://example/stream.xyz''' is the FTP address of the stream;

 {{%}} '''vlc -vvv mms://viptvr.yacast.fr/encoderfranceinfo'''
where '''mms://viptvr.yacast.fr/encoderfranceinfo''' is the MMS address of the stream.

===Receive a RTP stream available through RTSP===

 {{%}} '''vlc -vvv rtsp://www.hardradio.com/tonbeme.mov'''
where '''rtsp://www.hardradio.com/tonbeme.mov''' is the address of the stream.

===Receive a stream described by an SDP file===

 {{%}} '''vlc -vvv http://server.example.org/stream.sdp'''

== Save a stream with VLC ==

VLC can save the stream to the disk. In order to do this, use the Stream Output of VLC: you can do it via the graphical interface (Media [menu] → streaming) or use the [http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/2686/how-to-copy-a-dvd-with-vlc-1.0/ record button], or you can add to the command line the following argument: 

 '''--sout file/muxer:stream.xyz'''

where: 

*'''muxer''' is one of the formats supported by VLC's stream output, i.e.&nbsp;: 
**'''ogg''' for OGG format, 
**'''ps''' MPEG2-PS format, 
**'''ts''' for MPEG2-TS format. 
*and '''stream.xyz''' is the name of the file you want to save the stream to, with the right extension.

For example: 
 '''vlc your_input_file_or_stream_here --sout=file/ps:go.mpg '''

This is short hand for the more verbose 
 '''vlc your_input_file_or_stream_here --sout="#std{access=file,mux=ps,dst=go.mpg}" 

NB that you must choose a muxer that supports your stream type. See [[Transcode#Compatibility_issues]] 

It can also be quite helpful to look at the settings VLC uses when it records using its record button. For example, in the logs you might see something like this: 

...: Using record output `std{access=file,mux='ps',dst='C:\vlc-record-2010__E-.mpg'}' 

Which gives you a hint/clue as to how to record your current stream. In this case this would translate into --sout "#std{access=file... on the command line.

==Receive a stream with a set-top-box==

Some set-top-boxes with Ethernet cards can receive MPEG2-TS streams over UDP and support multicast.

Set-top-boxes known to work with VLC are:
* [http://www.pace.co.uk Pace] set top boxes. (Pace Micro DSL 4000)
* [http://www.aminocom.com Aminocom] set top boxes. (all the models with mpeg2)
* tuxia / gct-allwell (mpeg4 and mpeg2) sigma designs8174 chipset
* i3micro mood200 (mpeg4 and mpeg2 in transport streams)
* ps3 media server streams using VLC (or mencoder) to the PS3

{{Documentation}}