This user documentation for the VLC Player is woefully inadequate. For example, it appears to be possible to take snapshots with the VLC Player, since there is a "snapshot" button in the Video menu, but the Play HowTo/Basic Use page does not even mention the word "snapshot." Clicking the snapshot button has no visible effect other than displaying a snapshot in the upper left hand corner, which then slowly fades out. 

A search on "snapshot" produces some hits in the FAQ category that look like they might give the answer, but clicking on the FAQ category simply goes to a page that gives references to the MediaWiki FAQ page, which gives lots of useful information about using MediaWiki, but none about using VLC. 

Usually a HowTo guide goes through all the items in all the menus and explains how each one works, but this guide does not do that. Is this a conscious policy, or is it because no one has yet found the time to do it?
-- [[User:Gommer|Gommer]]
:This documentation is at least 2 or 3 years old. I moved it to the wiki recently but haven't been able to update it since. The whole point of moving it to the wiki is that anyone can edit it. If you feel that stuff is missing, please add it. -- [[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 12:29, 22 February 2007 (CET)

:I had also imported the FAQ into the wiki about 1 year ago, so that it could be easily updated. I think this page was http://wiki.videolan.org/wiki/FAQ, but as URLs are now (since when?) formatted like http://wiki.videolan.org/Article (instead of wiki.videolan.org/'''wiki'''/Article), we get mediawiki's FAQ (http://wiki.videolan.org/FAQ) instead of the FAQ article I wrote. Is there a way to fix that, or at least, to recover the FAQ article? -- [[User:Yoann|Yoann]]

::It seems there is a way to recover the content, using the last version of the FAQ article here: http://wiki.videolan.org/index.php?title=FAQ&oldid=4799 Where should we move this content to? -- [[User:Yoann|Yoann]]

::OK, I moved it to Frequently Asked Questions [[User:Yoann|Yoann]] 19:39, 1 March 2007 (CET)

== Forked documentation for version 0.9 ==
As others above, I also found [[Documentation:Play HowTo/Basic Use]] very out of date. Therefore I have copied it to [[Documentation:Play HowTo/Basic Use 0.9]] and started updating the sections and screenshots to match the Windows 0.9.4 version. I also added bold Notes to the top of each "Basic Use" article in order to explain the status and to link to the other. The 0.9 article still needs work, as I have only updated these section so far:
* '''Windows and GNU/Linux (wxWidgets)'''
* '''Play a file'''
* '''Play a network stream (WebRadio, WebTV, etc.)''' (incomplete)

I have also added:
* '''Example finding a Shoutcast radio stream'''
* '''Example playing a known Shoutcast radio stream'''

because as a newcomer to VLC I found those two tasks not at all straightforward. [[User:Wikibob|Wikibob]] 22:45, 15 October 2008 (CEST)