{{mux|id=dts|mod=es|encoder=n}}

DTS is a private company that develops audio formats, similar to Dolby. The term "DTS" generally refers to DTS's digital surround audio technology that is used widely on DVD-Video discs, just like Dolby's Dolby Digital/AC3.

DTS differs from [[Dolby Digital]] in that it uses less compression and has a lower bass extension, which allows it to produce a better sound quality. DTS Stereo sounds almost identical to Dolby Surround.

== Codec info ==
DTS Coherent Acoustics is a perceptual audio codec. The main technique used is a QMF filter together with Huffman, ADPCM and vector quantization.

The DTS codec consists of a core and various extensions, that improve quality.

=== DTS Extensions ===
* Core: core components with core sub stream
* XCh: DTS-ES backward compatible 6.1 extension
:Adds an extra centre surround channel, with 6.1->5.1 downmix embedded in the core stream using default down-mix coefficients.
* X96: sampling frequency extension up to 96 kHz
:48kHz downsampled stream is embedded in the core.
* XXCH: channel extension beyond 5.1
:Allows up to 32 additional channels, with the 5.1 downmix embedded in the core stream.
* XBR: Extended Bit Rate extension (>1.5Mbps)
:Guaranteed to be compatible with the DTS core 
* XLL: Lossless extension
:core and residual signal are splitted.
* LBR: Low Bit Rate component

=== DTS Products ===
* DTS-Core: 5.1 Primary audio stream core component decoder
** Samples everywhere :)
* DTS-ES: Core + XCh, XXCh support
** http://streams.videolan.org/samples/A-codecs/DTS/dts/ES%206.1%20-%205.1%2016bit.dts
** http://streams.videolan.org/samples/A-codecs/DTS/dts/ES%206.1%2024bit.dts
* DTS 96/24: Core + X96 Support (+ XBR?)
** http://streams.videolan.org/samples/A-codecs/DTS/dts/96-24.dts
** http://streams.videolan.org/samples/A-codecs/DTS/dts/chronos%20-%2096-24.dts
* DTS-HD High Resolution Audio: Core + XCh + XBR support
** http://streams.videolan.org/misc/DTS-HD/SpeakerID-DTS-HD-HRA.mkv
** http://streams.videolan.org/samples/A-codecs/DTS/dts/Hi-Res%206.1%2024bit.dts
* DTS-HD Master Audio: Core + XLL support
** http://streams.videolan.org/samples//A-codecs/DTS/dts/Master%20Audio%207.1%2024bit.dts
** http://streams.videolan.org/samples//A-codecs/DTS/dts/Master%20Audio%205.1%2024bit.dts
* DTS Express: LBR support

* DTS-Broadcast, DTS Neo, DTS- Surround Sensation: unknown

== Samples ==
http://streams.videolan.org/samples/A-codecs/DTS/dts/

== Source code ==
{{file|modules/codec/dts.c|decoder packetizer}}

[[Category:Companies]]