== Install MSysGit ==
Take latest on https://github.com/msysgit/msysgit/releases/

And follow installation. It should be straightforward.

== Install TortoiseGit ==
Take the [http://download.tortoisegit.org/tgit/ latest 32-bit version] - currently http://download.tortoisegit.org/tgit/1.8.9.0/TortoiseGit-1.8.9.0-32bit.msi

Start and follow installation until success.
You may need to point where MSysGit is after installation (point it to the bin/ folder).

== Checkout a project ==
Open explorer, create a folder named VideoLAN.

Enter it.

Right click, select ''Git Clone'' and enter one of the VideoLAN project.

In the URL text box fill in the following: "http://git.videolan.org/git/x264.git"

Accept and wait.

For more information including access using http only, see the [[Git]] page.

== Cygwin git issue ==
'''Note for Windows users using [http://www.cygwin.com Cygwin] (linux-like build environment):'''

Applies to:

 Windows XP Service Pack 2 with Security Update '''KB925902''' installed
 Windows XP Service Pack 3

There is a problem on Windows XP (and possibly on other Microsoft Operating Systems) with 'git clone' which aborts unexpectedly with a Cygwin error during the 'checking out files' (reproducable every time and at the same percentage) at the end of the clone procedure:

 $ 2 [main] git 4012 D:\cygwin\bin\git.exe:
   *** fatal error - '''could not load shell32, Win32 error 487'''

This has been verified (May 22, 2008) against the currently available Cygwin 1.5.25-12 with git package versions 1.5.5.1-1 and 1.5.4-1 and is a generic problem which also affects cloning from other git repositories (although x264.git seems unaffected).

The issue is referred to in the mail archives of the Cygwin project mailing list here 
[http://sourceware.org/ml/cygwin/2007-07/msg00858.html Git error on Cygwin].

By eliminating the impossible, whatever remained, however improbable, it is the following Windows Security Update (April 3, 2007) which is actually the cause of the Cygwin issue: [http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/ms07-017.mspx Microsoft Security Bulletin MS07-017 - Vulnerabilities in GDI Could Allow Remote Code Execution (925902)]

Even though the same Security Update applies to the following systems, these are reported not to be affected:

 Windows Vista Service Pack 1
 Windows 2003 Server Standard Service Pack 2

''It is possible to get 'git clone' working again on the affected systems by removing the Security Update (KB925902) but this is obviously not recommended for security reasons.''

---

To use git with Cygwin (for WinXP) do this:

[Start][Run] and type "cmd".


Change to the directory where you desire to download x264 to:

cd c:\ffmpeg-SVN\


If you have installed Cygwin in the standard location then type this:

C:\ffmpeg-SVN\>c:\cygwin\bin\git clone http://git.videolan.org/vlc/x264.git

Initialized empty Git repository in /cygdrive/c/ffmpeg-SVN/x264/.git/<br>
remote: Generating pack...<br>
remote: Done counting 6710 objects.<br>
remote: Deltifying 6710 objects...<br>
remote:  100% (6710/6710) done<br>
remote: Total 6710 (delta 5345), reused 156 (delta 123)                :<br>
Receiving objects: 100% (6710/6710), 1.63 MiB | 25 KiB/s, done.<br>
Resolving deltas: 100% (5345/5345), done.<br>


You can use Cygwin's git under the DOS shell but if you try the same 
command under the Cygwin (Bash) shell you get an error message.

---


[[Category:Building]]
[[Category:Windows]]