== Introduction ==

{{VLC}} is a very popular, but quite large and complex piece of software.<br />
It uses a large number of [[Contrib Status|3rd party libraries]]. 

VLC development is [[open source]], and then a large community of developers worldwide contribute to it.<br />
However, entering a project such as VLC can be long and complex for new developers. 

This '''guide''' seeks to help understanding the VLC code base and VLC internals to quickly get up to speed.<br />
''NB: this guide is '''not''' about [[compiling]] VLC.''


A very good introduction to VLC can also be found on (an archived copy of the site) [//web.archive.org/web/20141204234622/http://www.enjoythearchitecture.com/vlc-architecture.html enjoythearchitecture].

== The layers of VLC and libVLC ==

=== VLC's Core / libVLCcore ===

The most important (and probably most complex) part of VLC is the core, located under {{VLCSourceFolder|src}} in the repository. 

*[[{{#rel2abs:/Core}}|Introduction to the core]]
** This is a '''MUST-READ''' for developers. 
*[[Documentation:VLC Modules Loading|VLC modules loading]]
** How the numerous VLC modules work and are loaded.
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Input}}|Input]]
** How the main input chain works (slightly outdated)
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Object Management}}|VLC Object Management]]
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Variables}}|VLC variables]]
*[[{{#rel2abs:/VLM Internals}}|VLM Internals]]

=== Plugins / Modules ===

[[{{#rel2abs:/How To Write a Module}}|How to write a VLC module]].

==== Input ====
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Access}}|Access]] 
** An access module provides a byte stream from a location string [[MRL]], like support for files, HTTP streams, webcams...
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Demux}}|Demuxer]]
** A demux module parses a byte stream and splits it into [[elementary stream]]s (tracks).
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Access Demux}}|Access-Demuxer]]
** An access_demux module combines the functionality of access and demux (and bypass any stream filters), splitting elementary streams directly from a location string. It's used where the bytestream abstraction is inadequate.
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Stream Filters}}|Stream Filters]]
** A stream filter module converts a byte stream into another byte stream. It could be used for file or byte stream decryption, as it is already used for decompression (gzip, Bzip2, XZ) and multi-part files.
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Decoder}}|Decoder]]
** A decoder takes an elementary stream and convert into raw video, audio or text data, reading for output.

==== Audio ====

*[[{{#rel2abs:/Audio Filters}}|Audio Filters]] 
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Audio Output}}|Audio Output]]

==== Video ====

*[[{{#rel2abs:/Video Filters}}|Video Filters]] 
**[[{{#rel2abs:/Video Filters/Deinterlace}}|Deinterlace]]
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Video Output}}|Video Output]]

==== Interfaces ====
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Interfaces}}|Interfaces]]

==== Modules types not documented (yet) ====
===== Misc =====
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Visualization}}|Visualization]] 
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Packetizers}}|Packetizers]]

===== Streaming output =====
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Encoder}}|Encoder]] 
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Mux}}|Mux]] 
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Stream Output}}|Stream Output]] 
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Access Output}}|Access Output]]

=== libVLC and bindings ===

*Using [[{{#rel2abs:/libvlc}}|libvlc]] 
*bindings

== VLC source code overview ==

*[[{{#rel2abs:/VLC source tree}}]] 
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Modules source tree}}]] 
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Preferences}}|VLC Preferences]] 
*[[{{#rel2abs:/Playlist}}|VLC Playlist and Media Library]]

== Coding for VLC ==

*[[Patch]]ing ([[Sending Patches|sending]])
*[[Code Conventions]]
*[[Code Signing]]
*[[{{#rel2abs:/How To Write a Module}}|Adding a module]]
*[[Documentation:Unicode]]
*[https://www.videolan.org/developers/vlc/doc/doxygen/html/index.html Doxygen Documentation] <span class="plainlinks">([https://www.videolan.org/developers/vlc/doc/doxygen/html/pages.html pages] &bull; [https://www.videolan.org/developers/vlc/doc/doxygen/html/modules.html modules] &bull; [https://www.videolan.org/developers/vlc/doc/doxygen/html/annotated.html data structures] &bull; [https://www.videolan.org/developers/vlc/doc/doxygen/html/files.html files] &bull; [https://www.videolan.org/developers/vlc/doc/doxygen/html/group__vlc.html API])</span>
*[[C Types]]
*[[Strings]]

== User Experience ==

*[[Playback States]] 

== Testing ==

*[[Test Suite]]

== Mozilla plugins ==

* [[Plugins/Mozilla|Plugins in Mozilla]]

{{Hacker_Guide}}