Here are the following ways to help us.

Direct access:
* You are a [[#Designer| designer]]
* You are a [[#Documentation | writer]]
* You are someone who is proficient with computers
* You have good English language skills
* You have [[Mirrors|access to fast servers]]
* You are a [[#Coder|coder in C/C++/Objective-C/ASM]]
* You are a sysadmin (Linux)
* You are a Maintainer/Packager
* You are Google
* You are Microsoft
* You are Coverity
* You are Mozilla
* You are [[#Promote VLC|none of the above]]

== Coder ==
If you are a programmer, you can help us by integrating the project:
* New features
* Features improvement
* Bug Tracking
* Code cleaning
* Porting to a new platform

If don't feel like taking on such a huge task, we suggest you take a look at our [[Code Janitorial|Code Janitorial project page]].

If you don't feel comfortable working on code but are a native speaker of the English language, look at [[QT4StringsReview|Strings Review]].

Also take a look at our [[Mini Projects]] Page.

Finally, VideoLAN offers [[Bounties]] for the development of specific features.

Get started in the [[Developers Corner]].

== Maintainer / Packager ==
If you know how to package for your special distribution/OS, please do so. Help us port {{VLC}} to as many platforms as possible.

== Documentation ==
If you:
* Like writing
* Like VLC
* Have never used VLC
* Run into a problem and end up solving it

'''You can help us make our documentation better!''' 

Update the [[Documentation:documentation | documentation]], edit this wiki, create tutorials or provide answers on the [http://forum.videolan.org forum].

Help us give the best support to everyone.

On each of these pages is a "Discussion link" &mdash; add something there if you find a page here confusing or incorrect.

== Designer ==
You can help with your design skills by:
* Repairing and updating the websites
* Create new [[skins]]
* Create new icons, screenshots, etc&hellip; See the [[VideoLAN_Design|design]] page

== Tester ==
You can test and report bugs.
You can enter the [[quality| quality team]].

== Promote VLC ==
You can help to promote VLC by:
* Subscribing to VLC [http://freshmeat.net/projects/vlc/ on Freshmeat]
* Talking about VLC to your friends and family
* Donating money

See [https://www.videolan.org/contribute.html here] for more details.

[[Category:About VideoLAN]]