Hello, welcome to the VideoLAN Wiki Site!

The aim of this site is to create a site to help document the [https://www.videolan.org VideoLAN software], a  [[free]] and [[open source]] media player and streaming solution. This site is a mixture of [[Knowledge Base|glossary]], [[Common Problems|frequently asked questions]] and [[VLC HowTo|general help]].

== Finding what you Want to Know ==
:''More information: [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Searching Help:Searching (at MediaWiki)]''
If you're looking for help about a specific feature, you can [[Special:Search|search]] for it using the search box on the left of every page.

Otherwise, a good place to start is the [[Main Page]], which lists all the main parts of the site.

== What's a Wiki Site? ==
:''More information: [https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki Wiki (at Wikipedia)]''
A wiki site is a site which anyone can edit—in fact, we'd like to encourage you to edit pages to make them even better! It works in a similar way to [https://www.wikipedia.org/ Wikipedia].

== Adding to VideoLAN Wiki ==
VideoLAN Wiki requires that you use an account when editing pages, but it's very easy to [[Special:Userlogin|log in or register]].

When you've logged in you can edit most pages by clicking the Edit tab on the top of the page. Some pages, <del>like this one,</del> don't allow you to edit it. This is mainly because they are a target for spam. If you want to edit them, you will need to ask an Admin ([{{fullurl:Special:Listusers|group=sysop}} list of admins]).

Adding to VideoLAN is easy—search for the page you want to add (to make sure it doesn't exist), then click on the "this exact title" link in the first paragraph.

== Wiki Formatting ==
:''More information: [https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Help:Editing Help:Editing (at WikiMedia)]''
When you're editing a page, adding plain text is simple, as you can just type it in. However, if you want to add special formatting&nbsp;– like making text bold&nbsp;– you can also do so. 

There are also some [[Help:Templates|templates]] you can use, for example typing <nowiki>{{wikipedia|Media Player}}</nowiki> will add a box on the right of the page linking to Wikipedia's page on Media Player.


[[Category:VideoLAN Wiki|{{PAGENAME}}]]