IP stands for Internet Protocol. It's the protocol the Internet was built on.

<blockquote>The set of rules that govern how devices communicate over the Internet. The Internet Protocol specifies the format of the packets that devices use to transmit messages through the network. It also specifies the addressing scheme that routers use to transmit messages to their destinations.</blockquote> Source: [https://www.icann.org/icann-acronyms-and-terms/en/G0256 ICANN].

IPv4 is the original implementation. Gradually everyone is trying to go to IPv6 which has way more potential addresses. With this new version every electronic device in the world is supposed to be able to get an IP address assigned. IPv6 supports techniques like [[multicast]], [[anycast]], <abbr title="Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol">DHCP</abbr> and IPsec (encryption for packets) natively.

IPv4 addresses look like:

 192.0.34.163

IPv6 addresses look like:

 fe80::230:65ff:fe6c:fa88

Higher level protocols like [[TCP]], [[UDP]], [[RTP]], [[RTSP]], etc., all use IP. 5 standard routing schemes are available:
* [[anycast]]
* [[broadcast]]
* [[geocast]]
* [[multicast]]
* [[unicast]]
<pre>
There are several more sending paradigms (not implemented in the IP standards?).
These include manycast (multicast/anycast mix), groupcast, somecast (realtime adaptive reliable multicasting).
The freaks can google them.
</pre>

===See also===
*[https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc791 RFC IPv4]
*[http://www.ipv6.org/ IPv6 website]
*[https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2133 RFC IPv6 basic]
*[https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2292 RFC IPv6 advanced]

[[Category:Protocols]]