== Testing if I broke something ==
{|class="wikitable"
| Test
! Test
|-
| Test || Test 
|}

{|class="prettytable"
| Test 
! Test
|-
| Test || Test 
|}

{|
| Test
! Test
|-
| Test || Test 
|}

Yay! --[[User:H2g2bob|h2g2bob]] 04:47, 17 December 2006 (CET)

== Link Styling ==

Hi everyone. I made it so that all links to videolan.org have a little picture by them. Is that okay? [[User talk:The thing|Let me know.]] To make the image not appear, you just dont type the "www." [[User:The thing|The thing]] <sup>([[User talk:The thing|Talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/The thing|Contribs]])</sup> 22:23, 13 July 2008 (CEST)

== Pre text wrapping ==

Hi all, I'm about to make a change for everyone here. Text in <code><nowiki><pre>...</pre></nowiki></code> tags will now soft-wrap.<br />
Here's a line from [[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Advanced Streaming Using the Command Line]] that shows you what I mean.<br />
Before (no wrapping):
<pre style="white-space:pre;word-break:normal;">% vlc input_stream --sout "#module1{option1=parameter1{parameter-option1},option2=parameter2}:module2{option1=...,option2=...}:..."</pre>
After (wrapping):
<pre style="white-space:pre-wrap;word-break:break-all;">% vlc input_stream --sout "#module1{option1=parameter1{parameter-option1},option2=parameter2}:module2{option1=...,option2=...}:..."</pre>
I prefer this because I can read without having to scroll. If you feel differently [[User talk:DoesItReallyMatter|tell me]] and I'll revert the change (or you can do it yourself).

{{User:DoesItReallyMatter/real_sig}} 08:11, 30 January 2019 (CET)