{{wikipedia|MPEG}}
MPEG refers to a set of standards created by the [http://www.chiariglione.org/about Moving Picture Experts Group]. MPEG refers to several video, audio and [[container]] formats; see the full list at the [[Codec]] page.

An MPEG file is a file using an MPEG container (these are called ''mpeg1'', ''ts'', ''ps'', and ''mp4'' for MPEG-4). 

== Creating an MPEG File with VLC ==
To make an MPEG file, you need to:
* Pick a container (see [[#Container_formats|below]])
* Transcode the audio and video to formats able to be held in the container: in general this is the MPEG video and audio formats only. Check the [https://www.videolan.org/streaming/features.html compatibility information] in the official documentation, but be warned that while VLC allows any codec and mux, most other players support only a few combinations!

== <span id="MPEG-1"></span><span id="MPEG-2"></span> MPEG-1 and 2 ==
{{see also|H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2}}
{{wikipedia|MPEG-1|MPEG-2}}

* Muxer: '''ts''', '''ps''', '''mpeg1'''

MPEG-1 is a video and audio compression format, used in [[Video CD]]s. It is compatible with a large number of software and hardware devices.

Here is an example of how to transcode an [[AVI]] into a portable MPEG-1 video from the [[command prompt]]
 {{%}} vlc ''file.avi'' --sout='#transcode{vcodec=mp1v, acodec=mpga}:std{access=file, mux=mpeg1,url=''file.mpg''}'

MPEG-2 is used in digital television and [[DVB]]. It is also used as the format for [[DVD]]s.  The biggest advantage of this format over MPEG-1 is in its support for interlaced pictures; MPEG-2 can cleanly [[compress]] [[interlaced]] video, while MPEG-1 internally only works on progressive-scan video, so interlacing must be faked.

Here is an example of how to transcode an AVI into an MPEG-2 video from the [[command prompt]]
 {{%}} vlc ''file.avi'' --sout='#transcode{vcodec=mp2v, acodec=mpga}:std{access=file, mux=ps,url=''file.mpg''}'

=== Transcoding and Streaming ===

{{Bug|1965}} formerly required supplying a framerate of 25 in order to [[transcode]] and stream an MPEG-1 or MPEG-2 payload.<br />
'''This has been fixed since 2.0.0.'''

''HINT:'' Use an MPEG-TS (transport) stream container if you are streaming MPEG through the network (see [[#Container formats|Container Formats]]).

=== Video ===
{{codec video|id=mp1v}}
{{codec video|id=mp2v|altid=mpgv}}
{{codec video|id=mp4v}}
{{codec video|id=h264}}
Codecs for MPEG-1 Video, MPEG-2 Video, MPEG-4 Video and H.264 Video (MPEG-4 AVC).

=== Audio ===
{{codec audio|id=mpga|info=MP2 audio.}}
{{codec audio|id=mp3|info=[[MP3]] audio.}}
{{codec audio|id=mp4a|info=[[AAC]] audio.}}
Codecs for MPEG Layer 1/2 audio, MPEG Layer 3 audio and MPEG-4 AAC audio

=== Container formats ===
MPEG-2 specified 2 [[container]] formats, ts and ps. Containers hold video and audio information in them, and package them up so it can be sent over a network or stored on disk.
* '''ts''' (Transport Stream) should be used to store or send data where data loss will probably occur, such as over a network.
* '''ps''' (Program Stream) should be used to store or send data where data loss is not likely, such as on a DVD.

Both ps and ts can transport MPEG-4 Video, but only ts can send MPEG-4 Audio. In addition, MPEG-4 specifies its own container format, '''mp4''' (see [[MPEG-4]])

==== <span id="TS"></span> TS, MPEG2 Transport Stream ====
{{mux|id=ts|encoder=y}}

===== Module options =====
{{Transcluded|Documentation:Modules/ts}}
{{:Documentation:Modules/ts}}

===== Accepted video codecs =====
* [[mp1v]]: MPEG-1 video
* [[mpgv]]: MPEG-1 or MPEG-2 video
* [[mp4v]]: MPEG-4 video (ASP)
* [[h264]]: H.264, MPEG-4 AVC
* [[Dirac|drac]]: Dirac
* [[jpeg]]
* [[ms]]: MS codecs (nonstandard?)

===== Accepted audio codecs =====
* [[MP1]], [[MP2]], [[MP3]]
* [[mp4a]]: MPEG-4 Audio (MP4)
* [[a52]]
* [[lpcm]]
* [[dts]]

===== Accepted subtitle codecs =====
* [[spu]]
* [[subt]]
* [[telx]]

==== <span id="PS"></span> PS, aka MPEG Program Stream ====
{{mux|id=ps|encoder=y}}

===== Module options =====
{{Transcluded|Documentation:Modules/ps}}
{{:Documentation:Modules/ps}}

===== Accepted video codecs =====
* [[mpgv]]: MPEG-1 or MPEG2
* [[mp4v]]: MPEG-4

===== Accepted audio codecs =====
* [[mpga]]: MP1, MP2 or MP3
* [[mp4a]]: MPEG-4 (MP4)
* [[dts]]
* [[a52]]
* [[lpcm]]

===== Accepted subtitle codecs =====
* [[spu]]
* [[ogt]]
* [[cvd]]

{{clear}}

== <span id="MPEG-3"></span> MPEG-3 ==
{{wikipedia|MPEG-3}}
A largely unused audio and video compression format.
* Note that the amazingly common [[MP3]] audio files are actually '''MPEG-1 Layer 3''' audio, not MPEG-3.
{{clear}}

== MPEG-4 ==
{{See|MPEG-4}}

== Source code ==
{{file|modules/mux/mp4/mp4.c|output muxer}}
{{file|modules/demux/mpeg/ps.c|input demuxer}}
{{file|modules/demux/mpeg/ts.c|input demuxer}}
{{file|modules/demux/mpeg/ps.h|input demuxer}}

== Further reading ==
* [https://sound.media.mit.edu/resources/mpeg4/audio/ sound.media.mit.edu - The MPEG Audio Web Page]