__NOTOC__
{{howto|report a VLC bug}}

:''Android users, please see [[Android Report bugs]].''

= Reporting a VLC bug =
 	
If you find any bugs, or if you experience any crashes, then we would '''very much''' like to hear about the issue.

Here is some ''detailed'' information on how to submit useful bug reports. Please try to follow the bugs policy, so we all save time.

== Is it truly a new bug? ==
It may seem silly, but a large proportion of the submitted bug reports are not really bugs at all, or have been known for months, and/or are already fixed. 

To avoid that, please check the following:

=== Version ===
''Are you using the latest version of VLC?'' The latest version is '''{{VLC:latest_version}}'''.

Bug reports on older versions of VLC are likely to be ignored, because changes in newer versions of VLC may have already fixed the issue.

=== Preferences ===
''Have you tried resetting your preferences and restarting VLC yet?''

Old preferences and/or incorrect settings are common causes of problems.<br />
See [[VSG:ResetPrefs]] for details on how to delete your preferences. (Uninstalling VLC does not remove its old settings).

=== Nightly builds ===
Before you file a new bug, please try a preview development build of our next version on our [http://nightlies.videolan.org '''nightly build'''] website. The bug may already be fixed in those builds.

=== New Features ===
Some things are simply not yet supported by VLC. We have a [https://trac.videolan.org/vlc/query?action=view&amp;type=enhancement&amp;order=priority list of things] we would like to implement in the future.
 
If your suggestion is not on this list, you might want to make a ''feature request'' bug on [https://trac.videolan.org/vlc/ Trac].

=== Closed bugs ===
Many bugs are already known. Sometimes they are already fixed for the next version of VLC, see the nightly builds section.

Please [https://trac.videolan.org/vlc/ search] the list of known and fixed issues. If you find your issue, see if it is already closed. The page of the issue will then show something like:

''Ticket #87 (Closed: fixed)''

== Still a bug? ==
So you still think you found a bug? Great!

=== Search ===
Search on this wiki and on the [http://forum.videolan.org forums] and see if someone else has asked a similar question or has seen a similar bug.

Ask about your problem in the [http://forum.videolan.org/ relevant forum]  and make sure to include as much information as possible (see the pointers below).  You can also describe your problem on the [http://www.videolan.org/support/lists.html relevant mailing list].

=== Enter the bug in the VLC Trac ===
If you are sure that you found a bug and that you have all information needed, you can enter a bug in our [https://trac.videolan.org/vlc/ Trac system]. 

You will need to register a user account before you can file a new bug (or comment on an existing one). Don't forget to enter a valid e-mail address if you want to receive notifications when your bug is handled.

= Sending a bug report =
When you post on the forum, email us, or create a bug report, please provide as much information as possible in your report.

We try to answer all your mails, posts and reports, but there are so many that we simply do not have the time to do so for everyone.

The more sound and concrete details you provide about your issue, the better the chances that we will investigate it fully.

== Information to send ==
Please gather the following information and send it along with your report:

# Your '''operating system''' and the precise version (include the Linux distribution, or the version of Windows).
# Your {{VLC}} version.
# The '''hardware''' you use. Make sure to name all the audio and video hardware in question that might be related to VLC's usage.<br />For instance: iMac G4 or Pentium4 with GeForce3, with an external USB dolby surround output device.
# '''Complete logs''' as those from the messages dialog, '''verbosity to 2''' (GUI mode) or the -vvv switch (CLI mode)
# The exact '''steps to reproduce''' the problem.<br />Please be as precise as possible. If you are uncomfortable with words, you may also use screenshots.
# The reproducibility of the problem: does it occur every time? If not, how often?
# If applicable, the type (movie, music, subtitle) and the '''format''' of the file being played. If known, also the codec(s) in the file.
# If the bug is a crash or lock-up/freeze, the '''complete''' threaded '''symbolic''' stack trace of VLC at the time (see also below).
# If possible, the '''video sample''' in question:<br />If the issue is specific to a certain file, that is always very helpful, if not indispensible. In this case, please upload as much of the file as you can to our [http://streams.videolan.org/upload/ samples server].
# '''Email''' with a valid reply address, if you are not using trac, so we can get back to you with possible additional questions.

= Filing a bug report =

If the problem is a software bug, rather than a support problem, then it is recommended to file a bug report with the listed infos above. Note that a single bug report must describe '''exactly one bug'''. If there are more than one bug, then as many separate bug reports should be filed.

Bugs with insufficient infos may be closed as incomplete (or invalid in the worst cases). VLC developers understand that the requested infos can be difficult to gather or provide. Indeed, producing a stack trace can be complex and time-consuming. And sharing sample files can pose confidentiality, privacy or piracy issues. However as a bug reporter you have to accept that the VLC developers cannot resolve bugs without sufficient infos for analysis.

Also please keep in mind that the VLC developers are not paid to solve your problems. There cannot be any warranty for any kind of timeline regarding resolution of a bug. On the one hand, some bugs have been fixed within minutes of being filed. On the other hand, some bugs have remained open for over a decade, with no signs of getting fixed any time soon. If you need express resolution, you should attempt to solve the problem yourself, or consider hiring a software consultant.

== Bug severities ==

=== blocker ===
Impediment to software development, e.g. build breakage on most platforms, systematic crash at startup or when playing any file input.

=== critical ===
Impediment to software release, e.g. security issue, crash in most basic and common use cases (i.e. more than 50% of user base), crash at exit.

=== major ===
Basic feature not working, e.g. inputs other than file not working, file format or codec not rendered.

=== normal ===
Expert feature not working, e.g. stream output problem, specific configuration option. Feature requests.

=== minor ===
Problem that can be worked around easily or is really unimportant.

=== trivial ===
Typing error. Self-explanatory bugfixes. Inconsequential compiler warnings.

== Bug priorities ==

If you have a high priority issue, you must provide a patch yourself, or arrange for someone to do so.
The VideoLAN project and the VLC developers are not at your service (they do not get your money) and cannot satisfy all requests.

Keep in mind that '''abuse of "high" and "highest" priorities will only attract ill will'''.

== Bug resolutions ==

All bugs are initially filed in the ''new'', and without a ''resolution''. If/when a bug gets closed, the resolution must be filed. The following resolutions are currently used:

=== fixed ===
The bug has been corrected in a newer version of VLC; the fixed version should be indicated under ''milestone''.

=== invalid ===
The bug report is confusing, unintelligible or is not in English. Or the bug describes multiple separate issues in a single report. Or for any other reasons, the VLC developers are unable to analyze the bug report.

=== wontfix ===
The VLC developers believe that the problem should not be addressed because it would cause more problems that it would solve, or is otherwise a bad idea. Alternatively, the VLC developers believe that the problem can fundamentally not be addressed, even if the concern is valid.

=== duplicate ===
A report for the same problem has already been filed earlier. There is no need to keep multiple reports for a single problem. This does not necessarily mean that the bug is fixed yet.

=== worksforme ===
In the specified circumstances, the VLC developers are not able to reproduce the described problem, or the described ''problem'' is actually the intended behaviour.

=== notvlc ===
The reported problem seems like it might be real. However its root cause does not lie within the VLC code base, and therefore the VLC developers cannot fix it. The bug should probably be reported '''somewhere else'''.

=== incomplete ===
The bug report does not contain enough infos for the VLC developers to analyze the bug. See also above.

== Additional remarks ==
If you can, or if it applies to you try to take into account the following.

=== Windows users ===
You can send along the last VLC crash log. The file is called [[Crashdump]]. If you are familiar with '''gdb''', you can use it to give us more detailed crash info. [[Tutorial for gdb debug under Win32|Tutorial for GDB with Win32]]

If your bug is a crash, please try to reproduce and report using a [http://nightlies.videolan.org/build/win32/last/ -debug build].

=== Mac OS X users ===
Please send along the last part of ~/Library/Logs/CrashReporter/VLC.crash.log if you can. Many crashes of VLC are logged in this file. You can open the file from VLC by going to the menu Window and choosing Messages. Now click the "Open CrashLog" button.

Please make sure you send the last crash (at the bottom of the file) and that it actually is the crash you described. The Date/Time field reports the time of the crash so that way you can check if it is the crash you experienced, or an earlier one.

===Compile problems===
Make sure you have read the [[Developers_Corner]].
Give the full log showing the problem
<pre>
	  ./configure &lt;options&gt; &gt; logfile.txt 2&gt;&amp;1
	  make 2&gt;&amp;1 > logfile.txt 2&gt;&amp;1
</pre>

* When dealing with a ./configure issue, please provide the generated config.log file.
* Your compiler brand and version may be relevant here as well.

== Version ==
Written by Derk-Jan Hartman, for the VideoLAN Team.

Adapted by [[User:J-b|Jean-Baptiste Kempf]] for this wiki.

[[Category:Security]]