{{SoCProject|year=2009|student=[[User:Lahiru|Lahiru Lakmal Priyadarshana]]|mentor=[[User:J-b|Jean-Baptiste Kempf]]}}

=Qt Pimping=

==Abstract==

Even though the current Qt Interface is reasonably good enough to experience the most capabilities of the VLC media player, there are lot of sections that can be more improved.

For example, in the current Qt user interface the main two elements are the video widget and the controller bar. All the other important sections like the playlist, media library, equalizer etc, use their own, separate, dialogs boxes. Therefore, it would be really great to combine all these most used features in one single window by re-designing the current interface.

==Goals==

* Pimp the current Qt UI by redesigning the layout. This will be done based on the [http://people.videolan.org/~jb/VLC%20Layouts.png layout designs] given by the mentor, [[User:J-b|Jean-Baptiste Kempf]].

* Design & Implement custom widgets as needed.

* Add Qt Kinetics to the main UI. At first, Kinetics state animations will be added to the main video while changing the states of the player.

* Integrate ML, Simple Playlist, Equalizer and other sections with the main layout.

* Complete the Pimped VLC UI. :)

==Time Line==

'''April 20 - May 23: Familiarize my self with VLC code base. Clone the git and setup the project on QtCreator. Discuss with the mentor to identify and fine tune the project goals.'''

''May 29: Undergrad thesis submission deadline.''

''May 30: Undergrad final year project VIVA and demonstration.''

'''May 31 - June 13: Complete the main layouts.'''

'''June 14 - June 28: Arrange the required widgets.'''

'''June 29 - July  6: Implement a basic but functional UI with Qt Kinetic support.'''

July 6: ~12 noon PDT / 19:00 UTC  begin submitting mid-term evaluations.

'''July 7 - July 13: Fine tune the widgets and the layouts. Add Media Library and Simple Playlist UI.'''

July 13: 12 noon PDT / 19:00 UTC  Mid-term evaluations deadline.

'''July 14 - July 20: Add Equalizer to the main view. Try out more suitable kinetics. Integrate cool widgets like coverflow etc...'''

'''July 21 - August 10: Get feedback on the design from the community and add more cool ideas, if possible.'''

August 10: Suggested 'pencils down' date. Take a week to scrub code.

August 17: ~12 noon PDT / 19:00 UTC  Firm 'pencils down' date.

August 24: 12 noon PDT / 19:00  UTC Final evaluation deadline;

August 25: 12 noon PDT / 19:00 UTC  Final results of GSoC 2009 announced.

September 3: Begin submitting required code samples to Google.

== Status ==