{{SoCProject|year=2009|student=Dylan Yudaken|mentor=Jason Garrett-Glaser}}

== Abstract ==
x264 is a highly popular h264 encoder. It currently does not implement the entire spec of h264. Currently weighted P-frames are not used to assist in prediction. If implemented this would give huge benefits in cases where the scene fades or where there are flashes. I am proposing to implement an implementation of this that is good enough and fast enough to warrant inclusion in most video encodings.

== Code ==
My patches (and codebase) are [http://repo.or.cz/w/x264/x264-p-frames.git?a=shortlog;h=refs/heads/gsoc here] for now, but they may soon move to videolan's server

== Goals ==
{| class="wikitable"
! No. !! Task Description !! Status !! Comment
|-
|1 || Build weighting framework || style="background: #00ff00"|done || .
|-
|2 || Brute Force Optimal Weights||style="background: #00ff00"|done || 
|-
|3 || Try use these new weights for some interesting things to improve quality||style="background: #00ff00"|done || 
|-
|4 || Find Optimal Weights in a fast way (probably based on the findings in 3.) ||style="background: #00ff00"|done ||
|-
|5 || DSP Functions ||style="background: #00ff00"|Done ||
|-
|6 || Try duplicating reference frames ||style="background: #00ff00"|Done|| 
|-
|7 || Other weird uses ||style="background: #00ff00"|done || Implemented a k-means cluster algorithm to find a number (k) of good weights and use them 
|-
|8 || Finish off small things ||style="background: #00aa00"|Working || Todo: Finish multipass, cleanup k-means a bit
|-
|9 || Optimize algorithms and test like crazy || Not started || 
|-
|10 || Cleanup and code review || Not started || 
|}

===Current Issues===

== Timeline ==
This is an estimation.

'''March 20th or so - April 3''' Qualifying task. Was a first attempt at goal 1.

'''April 20''' Students announce

'''April 21 - May''' Goal 1 redone better and acceptably.

'''May 1 - May 20''' Work on goal 2

''' May 23''' Program Starts

''' May 26 - June 12 ''' Exams

''' June 13 - July 13''' Code

''' July 13''' Mid Term deadline. Goals for here have not been set but personally I would like to have goal 2 & 4 finished with goal 3 having a decent chunk of work done. This weird out of order thing is because goal 3 can be worked on continuously as it is not really set, more the trying of ideas.

''' July 13 - August 17''' Code

'''August 17''' Program end