mp3 metadata transcoding VLC? How to add metadata to mp3 stream?
Also where this COMMAND LINE in VLC - I dodn't find it?

: I don't think you can change the metadata directly on VLC at the moment, sorry about that :(
: The command line is cmd.exe ([[wikipedia:cmd.exe|wikipedia]]), sometimes called the MS-DOS prompt. Full details are at [[command prompt]], but in short it is a part of Windows that is used to run programs by typing in their full name, followed by some options (if you want). It is useful if you want to have fine control of a program (as you can pass options to tell the program what to do when you start it), or want to run programs that do not open a window (vlc can run without a window by using a [[console interface]]). --[[User:H2g2bob|h2g2bob]] 03:49, 12 December 2006 (CET)

== Appearance of this Wiki page ==

This page is very long and wide, and since the included scroll bar is out of sight at the bottom, it's hard to navigate.  Running Firefox and searching for the word "equalizer", there were apparently a few occurrences of it that were utterly invisible. [[User:D021317c|D021317c]] 09:13, 21 January 2007 (CET)

this page renders my os x browser unusable.  I also can't see any of the text in the {code} section

== Explanation of ISO639 codes ==

In the following two command options ...
 --audio-language=<string>
 --sub-language=<string>
... the help indicates that you can use a 2- or 3-letter ISO639 code. This is true, but there is also a special code, "any" (all lowercase), that defaults to using any language. If you omit "any", the system defaults to "Disabled".
--[[User:Johnf|Johnf]] 04:32, 30 August 2009 (UTC)

== We should only keep the first few lines of this page ==

This page is not very useful as the information it contains can easily be generated using "vlc --help". What do you think? [[User:Popol0909|Popol0909]] 15:23, 21 August 2010 (UTC)

== help output ==

updated the help output --[[User:J4n|Jan]] ([[User talk:J4n|talk]]) 04:10, 14 March 2018 (CET)