== Target / Item ==
When refering to playlist items, some of the current strings use "target" (like "Plays the next target in the playlist"), and some use "item" (like "Go to next item in the playlist").  Which one should we use (for consistency's sake)?  I put my vote for 'item' as it seems more sensical.  --[[User:Tonsofpcs|tonsofpcs]] 07:45, 2 April 2006 (CEST)

: item [[User:J-b|jb]] 00:34, 4 January 2012 (UTC)

Another example:
demux vs. demuxer vs. demultiplexer
: demuxer [[User:J-b|jb]] 00:34, 4 January 2012 (UTC)

mux vs. muxer vs. multiplexer
: muxer [[User:J-b|jb]] 00:34, 4 January 2012 (UTC)

Or ending with -plexing


Is this referring to the same thing? If so, I would like to have the same words:

"Playback Rate"

"Playback speed"

"Revert to normal play speed"
: it should be speed [[User:J-b|jb]]


Another candidate: <br>
modules/access/jack.c:61 <br>
"Read the audio stream at VLC pace rather than Jack pace."

[[User:No se|No se]] 09:38, 4 January 2012 (UTC)

== similar but different... ==
... strings were mentioned by somebody. So I had a look at the pot-file. Note: I did '''not''' check this in a running vlc, nor do I have that much experience in this field (giving advices how to translate software, or prepare for translation). So feel free to comment, state other points of view, or simply say that some points are wrong.

The best example so far:
src/libvlc-module.c:875 - 899 quoted for possible changes:

 /* DVD and VCD devices */
 #define DVD_DEV_TEXT N_("DVD device")
 #define VCD_DEV_TEXT N_("VCD device")
 #define CDAUDIO_DEV_TEXT N_("Audio CD device")
 
 #if defined( WIN32 ) || defined( __OS2__ )
 # define DVD_DEV_LONGTEXT N_( \
     "This is the default DVD drive (or file) to use. Don't forget the colon " \
     "after the drive letter (e.g. D:)")
 # define VCD_DEV_LONGTEXT N_( \
     "This is the default VCD drive (or file) to use. Don't forget the colon " \
     "after the drive letter (e.g. D:)")
 # define CDAUDIO_DEV_LONGTEXT N_( \
     "This is the default Audio CD drive (or file) to use. Don't forget the " \
     "colon after the drive letter (e.g. D:)")
 # define DVD_DEVICE     NULL
 # define CD_DEVICE      "D:"
 
 #else
 # define DVD_DEV_LONGTEXT N_( \
     "This is the default DVD device to use.")
 # define VCD_DEV_LONGTEXT N_( \
     "This is the default VCD device to use." )
 # define CDAUDIO_DEV_LONGTEXT N_( \
     "This is the default Audio CD device to use." )
 

I would suggest a split. Don't think splitting a sentence in more than 3 parts makes sense. Would be even more difficult to build a sentence around a string, because the translators won't even notice that this are parts of the same line. This is my suggestion:
 "This is the default drive (or file) to use. Don't forget the colon after the drive letter (e.g. D:)"
respectivly
  "This is the default device to use."

And the short form in the line above. Or in the same line right in front. Should give something like:

 Audio CD device
 This is the default device to use.
OR
 Audio CD device: This is the default device to use.

: Disagree. We should just merge this option into one [[User:J-b|jb]] 00:34, 4 January 2012 (UTC)


modules/access/dshow/dshow.cpp:191
This part is used for audio and video. Could possibly be split, too.
Caution: Sentence in line 188 uses audio and video. Don't know, if this is intentional.
: It is normal [[User:J-b|jb]] 00:34, 4 January 2012 (UTC)

modules/video_filter/panoramix.c:117 and following lines.

src/libvlc-module.c:1213
Previous string is used again with an appended extra sentence.

== Listing up the choices of a select box ==
If there is a select box, I don't see any use in listing the possible choices in a string next to it. An example is fine, some special hints or a link to faq/wiki/whatever...

Opening the pot-file and search for ", \" (the end of one element, a comma, a space and the beginning of the next element) will give you what I found, too:
 ", \"

modules/demux/subtitle.c:56
: will fix [[User:J-b|jb]] 00:34, 4 January 2012 (UTC)

modules/access/dshow/dshow.cpp:172
: will fix [[User:J-b|jb]] 00:34, 4 January 2012 (UTC)

modules/audio_output/file.c:81
: done [[User:J-b|jb]] 00:34, 4 January 2012 (UTC)

Just make sure there really is a select box. If the strings are displayed elsewhere, they might be of use.

Another way to find interesting parts of the translation:
 vlc -H | grep "1="

Additionally you will find several "position on the video" which is another example of similar but different.


On vlc 1.1.13: <br>
settings->all->audio->visualizers->visualizer
will show an effects list like
modules/visualization/visual/visual.c:44
Does selecting one here have any effect at all?


When looking at <br>
settings->all->audio->filter  or <br>
settings->all->video->filter <br>
You get a list of filters to apply. What is the reason for this strings being different from those to the left?

[[User:No se|No se]] 09:51, 3 January 2012 (UTC)

== Binary variables/flags ==
Those are fine for translation normally. With the right text (look at the guidelines here).

modules/audio_filter/audiobargraph_a.c:48 and following lines show several integers instead. I would prefer simple checkboxes.
 "Defines if BarGraph information should be sent (default 1)"
Would become:
 "Send BarGraph information" or similar.


Possibly something similar:
modules/video_filter/rss.c:167

[[User:No se|No se]] 15:21, 2 January 2012 (UTC)

== possible typos ==

modules/gui/qt4/dialogs/openurl.cpp:66

"Please enter the URL or path to the media you want to play"

Looks like a complete sentence but misses a period.
: will fix [[User:J-b|jb]] 00:34, 4 January 2012 (UTC)

Missing a space after the period: <br>
modules/audio_filter/audiobargraph_a.c:41 <br>
modules/audio_filter/audiobargraph_a.c:45 <br>
: will fix [[User:J-b|jb]] 00:34, 4 January 2012 (UTC)

What shall be the correct spelling for barGraph vs. BarGraph? <br>


share/lua/http/index.html:274 <br>
"Are you sure you wish to create the stream ?" <br>
share/lua/http/mobile_equalizer.html:62 <br>
"Preamp: " <br>

Both may have a not needed space.

[[User:No se|No se]] 14:04, 2 January 2012 (UTC)

== Colon at the end of strings? ==

share/lua/http/dialogs/mosaic_window.html:96  and following lines is an example. I did not find this messages while running vlc so far.

Is there a general policy whether/when strings should end with a colon? This will not really bother translators, it's more "for consistency's sake" (and a bit for "similar but different").
I won't suggest simply moving the colon at the end to an untranslated colon behind it, since it may lead to sentences ending in ".:" or similar. On the other hand, I won't expect translators to put a colon after a single word, if there isn't a colon in the original string. Complete sentences shall end with a period anyway (colon will work, too), so using them won't bother me, either.

== Source is ASCII only - unlike the translation ==

The source is ASCII only (is it?) [http://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/FAQ.html#nonascii_strings]. The translation is not restricted that way. So you can use for example … (ellipsis) instead of ... (three period characters) or locale-dependent quotes.

== 2.1.0 Rincewind TODO ==

There are several strings differing only in capitalization. But before deciding the capitalization for each of them, check spelling (one word/two words).

 msgmerge -v --sort-output  emptydummyfile.po vlc.pot > sortedlist.po

Gave a start for finding them.

Typos/spelling:

 "Audio visualizations "
It ends in space.

 Blu-Ray/BluRay
Blu-Ray is a registered trademark; bluray is not; We don't want to use trademarks.

 Force the DirectShow video input to use a specific frame rate(eg. 0 means default, 25, 29.97, 50, 59.94, etc.)
and
 Force skipping of idct to speed up decoding for frame types(-1=None, 0=Default, 1=B-frames, 2=P-frames, 3=B+P frames, 4=all frames).
Missing a space before "("

 Psychadelic/Psychedelic
"Psychadelic is just wrong"

 Network synchronisation/Network synchronization
synchronisation is also a correct spelling; less common in the US, but still correct in the rest of the world 

 Playlist is currently Empty
I will make it empty

 Audiobar Graph
This one is different for "Audio Bar Graph Video" will not match completely. Just ignore it, like I will.


Those are easy, and I can provide a patch (or several if preferred) of course.

The next 2 decisions affect the big Capitalization problem

 Aspect-ratio/Aspect ratio/Aspect Ratio

 bitrate/bit rate/Bit rate/Bit Rate (also: aAudio bBit rRate)
could be both; So I want it to be bitrate

[[User:No se|No se]] 07:59, 3 July 2012 (CEST)

== Capitalization. It's possible that keeping both version is reasonable, but for some cases we could kill one. ==

 Add to playlist
 Add to Playlist

 Advanced options
 Advanced Options

 Aspect Ratio
 Aspect ratio
 Aspect-ratio

 Audio bitrate
 Audio Bit Rate

Audio *  There are several example like this: Audio d/Device or Audio s/Settings

 Bit rate
 Bitrate

 Brightness Threshold
 Brightness threshold

 Broadcast: 
 Broadcast

 File Name
 Filename

 Font Size
 Font size

 Frames per Second
 Frames per Second:
 Frames per second

 General Audio Settings
 General audio settings

 General Video Settings
 General video settings

 Go to Time
 Go to time

 HTML Playlist
 HTML playlist
"HTML Playlist" → "HTML playlist"

modules/gui/macosx/playlist.m:562  [o_save_accessory_popup itemAtIndex:2] setTitle

 Hot keys
 Hotkeys
"Hot keys" → Hotkeys

 Image Adjust
 Image adjust
"Image [A/a]djust" sounds wrong to me

 Input & Codec settings
 Input & Codecs Settings

 Jump To Time
 Jump to time

 Maximal bitrate
 Maximum bitrate
"Maximal bitrate" → "Maximum bitrate"

 #: modules/gui/qt4/components/controller_widget.cpp:145
 msgctxt "Tooltip|Mute"
 msgid "Mute"
The other occurencies of "Mute" don't have msgctxt

 Outline Color
 Outline color

 Outline Thickness
 Outline thickness

 Output File
 Output file

 Playback Speed
 Playback speed

 Post processing quality
 Post-Processing Quality
"Post processing quality" → Post-processing quality

 Refresh List
 Refresh list

 Repeat All
 Repeat all
"Repeat All" → "Repeat all"
Several occurencies, to be checked

 SAP Announce
 SAP announce

 Save Playlist
 Save playlist

 Step Backward
 Step backward

 Step Forward
 Step forward

 Stream Name
 Stream name

 Stream Output
 Stream output

 Subtitles Track
 Subtitles track

 Track Synchronisation
 Track Synchronization

 User name
 Username

 Video Bit Rate
 Video bitrate

 Video Device
 Video device

 Video Settings
 Video settings

 Volume Down
 Volume down

 Volume Up
 Volume up

[[User:No se|No se]] 16:31, 2 July 2012 (CEST)