== Linking to a specific wikipedia page ==

It would be nice if you could use <nowiki>{{wikipedia|Page_Name}}</nowiki> to link to a page with a different title than the current page. If no <nowiki>{{{1}}}</nowiki> is specified, then it would have to default to the current page's name. I don't know how you can do this <nowiki>{{{1}}}</nowiki> definition check. -- [[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 00:27, 17 January 2006 (CET)

: <nowiki>I tried to use {{{1|default}}} which is avaliable in wikipedia, but i don't think it works here - {{{1}}} does work though. What I mean is that supporting both {{wikipedia}} and {{wikipedia|AAC}} would be impossible. I'll switch it back to the {{wikipedia|wikipedia_page}} format though. </nowiki> --[[User:H2g2bob|H2g2bob]] 00:34, 17 January 2006 (CET)

:: Great ! thanks -- [[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 00:38, 17 January 2006 (CET)

::: I'm guessing the configuration has changed a bit since then, but I just updated it to accept <nowiki>{{wikipedia}} (for a link to the page name), {{wikipedia|Foobar}} for the "Foobar" article, and {{wikipedia|Foobar|Bazquux}}</nowiki> for the "Foobar" article but labelled "Bazquux". [[User:MichaelBillington|MichaelBillington]] 04:30, 14 September 2010 (UTC)

:::: I updated it to accept up to 4 articles—<nowiki>{{wikipedia|foo|bar|baz|qux}}</nowiki> now works, as does <nowiki>{{wikipedia}}</nowiki> and <nowiki>{{wikipedia|foobar}}</nowiki>. Instead of passing the desired display name as the second parameter, it accepts label1, label2, etc. as the name to show. Wikipedia does it this way with [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:See_also/doc#Usage Template:See also].
:::: <nowiki>{{wikipedia|Foobar|label1=Foobar alt name}}</nowiki> will display the link as "Foobar alt name". Hope this makes sense! {{User:DoesItReallyMatter/real_sig}} 11:51, 6 November 2016 (CET)