<!--
-->{{top box
|id={{{id|??}}}
|text=<!--
Line 1: -->VLC can {{ #ifeq: {{{encoder|n}}} | y | '''encode''' and }} '''decode''' this [[container]]. {{{info|}}}<!--
Line 2: --><br />{{#if:{{{id|}}}<!--
                -->|The [[module]] name to use at the [[command line]] is {{#switch:{{{module link|page}}}<!--
                 -->| page     = '''{{docmod|{{{mod|{{{id}}}}}}}}'''<!--
                 -->| none     = {{{mod|{{{id}}}}}}<!--
                 -->| #default = [{{{module link}}} {{{mod|{{{id}}}}}}]<!--
                                                                       -->}}<!--
                 -->{{#if:{{{altid|}}}<!--
                   -->|, but you can also use '''{{{altid}}}'''<!--
                    -->{{#if:{{{altid2|}}}<!--
                      -->|, or '''{{{altid2}}}'''<!--
                    -->}}<!--
                 -->}}.<!--
                -->|The [[module]] name to use at the [[command line]] is unknown.<!--
              -->}}<!--
-->}}<includeonly> [[Category:Container]] {{ #ifeq: {{{encoder|n}}} | y | [[Category:Container_Encoder]] }} [[Category:Container_Decoder]] </includeonly><noinclude>

==Usage==
 <nowiki>{{mux|id= |encoder= |info= |module link= { page, none, <value> } |altid= |altid2= |mod= }}</nowiki>

id is supposed to be what you'd put in the command line, like
 --sout='#std{mux='''id''',url=....}'
If there is more than one shortcut, use altid for the others.

Parameter <code>'''|module link='''</code> defaults to <code>page</code>:
* page
** <code>mod</code> will link to a particular module while displaying the <code>id</code> given. Use this when <code>altid</code> would not make sense. For example, on the page [[MOV]] the code <code><nowiki>{{Mux|id=mov|mod=mp4}}</nowiki></code> will link to the ''mp4'' module while prominently displaying the shortcut ''mov'' in the box.
* none - ID only, no links
* {{tag|value}} - URL to the Git file

It will add it to [[:Category:Container]] (all containers) and  [[:Category:Container_Decoder]] (containers which can be decoded... which is all containers <span title="wink">;-)</span> If you think that's stupid, change it!

If encoder is "y" then it also adds it to  [[:Category:Container_Encoder]] and changes the text a bit.

Info is for extra text in the box.

==Examples==
Example, [[avi]]
 <nowiki>{{mux|id=avi|encoder=y}}</nowiki>
becomes
{{mux|id=avi|encoder=y}}


Example, [[asf]]
 <nowiki>{{mux|id=asf|encoder=y|info=This works with mp2v, blah blah}}</nowiki>
becomes
{{mux|id=asf|encoder=y|info=This works with mp2v, blah blah}}

Example, [[mp4]]
 <nowiki>{{mux|id=mp4|encoder=y|altid=mov|altid2=3gp}}</nowiki>
becomes
{{mux|id=mp4|encoder=y|altid=mov|altid2=3gp}}

==See also==
* {{tl|Codec audio}}
* {{tl|Codec video}}
* {{tl|Mux}}
* {{tl|Protocol}}

[[Category:Templates]]
</noinclude>