Here you can find my VLC related notes and ideas. It's primarily for me so that I don't forget things. ;D

== Deutsche Übersetzung ==
Media Kontextmenü:
*"Wiedergabe mit VLC" => "Mit VLC wiedergeben"
*"Zur VLC's Wiedergabeliste hinzufügen" => "Zu VLC-Wiedergabeliste hinzufügen"

Menüs:
*Extras->"Vollbildsteuerung" => "Vollbild" (wie Firefox)
*Medien->"Advanced open file" => "" ('''NICHT ÜBERSETZT''')

In Goldeneye:
*"Systray-Icon" => "Kontrolleisten-Icon anzeigen" (Pidgin)
*"Audio aktivieren" => "Audioausgabe aktivieren"
*"Video aktivieren" => "Videoausgabe aktivieren"
*"Vollbild" (Im einfachen Modus; "Vollbildausgabe" im Alle-Modus) => "Im Vollbildmodus starten"
*"Beschleunigte Videoausgabe (Overlay)" (im einfachen Modus; "Videoausgabe überlagern" im Alle-Modus) => "Videoausgabe beschleunigen (Overlay benutzen)"

== Misc. ==
Menus:
*Extras->"Media info", Extras->"Codec info"
** Duplicate functionality: First one already allows for switching to second one '''[DUP]'''
*Media->"Open file", Media->"Advanced open file"
** Duplicate functionality: Second one always opens as file selection dialogue, which is exactly what the first one provides '''[DUP]'''

== TODO ==
* <s>Think about applying for [[SoC 2008]]. [[SoC 2008#Fullscreen_Controller|Fullscreen Controller]] looks tasty!</s> Gone! Resort to wiki editing :-(
* <s>Read ''C++ Primer''</s> Bad choice; read TC++PL instead
* Get and read ''C++ GUI Programming with Qt 4''
** Ha! Free version [http://www.qtrac.eu/C++-GUI-Programming-with-Qt-4-1st-ed.zip here].

=== Fullscreen controller polishing ===
Style the fullscreen controller with [http://doc.trolltech.com/4.4/stylesheet.html Qt Style Sheet] to make it look more like [http://download.videolan.org/vlc/screenshots/0.8.6/VLC-mac-Fullscreen.jpg the one on OS X].
* Supports:
** [http://doc.trolltech.com/4.4/stylesheet-examples.html#customizing-a-qpushbutton-using-the-box-model Round corners]
** Transparency (specify <tt>background-color</tt> as a rgba color)
** More things to ponder on?

Alternative: Use a [http://web.archive.org/web/20080410001552/http://trolltech.com/products/qt/addon/solutions/catalog/4/Widgets/qtpiemenu/ pie menu]!

=== Improve translation process ===
Get in touch with the polish translators what the heck [http://translate.sourceforge.net/wiki/decathlon/mainpage?redirect=1 Pootle] is good for. '''[DONE!]'''
:''Nice, but Problem is that you can't export to one file without help from the admin.''
'''''Is this still the case?''''' 
--[[User:Materthron|materthron]] 17:58, 4 January 2009 (CET)

Migrate to [http://www.transifex.net/ Transifex]?