HI. How can we try your CSS? (other than replacing the default monobook.css)
[[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 12:22, 26 June 2007 (CEST)

:Create a subpage called monobook.css in your account page. So that would be in your case [[User:Dionoea/monobook.css]]. Copy my css into there. But be aware that it will only work while I'm only since I link to images on my home server atm. [[User:Altglass|Altglass]] 13:48, 26 June 2007 (CEST)

::Hum, i used Firefox' developper tools instead :) The CSS looks great... next you'll need to do one for the forum :) (using the nice cone we used to have on the old forum... i'll give you the url if you want) [[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 15:55, 26 June 2007 (CEST)
:::Here it is: http://download.videolan.org/images/forum-cone.png [[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 16:01, 26 June 2007 (CEST)
::::Well, first I was told to do the nightlies and the trac css, so still a bunch of work to do :) nice that you like it [[User:Altglass|Altglass]] 09:32, 27 June 2007 (CEST)
::::: It is a nice skin, I really like it. However, IE6 does not display it correctly, but I think I call that a feature. The submenu (article, and edit...) is not so easy to read because of the stripes, but that is only my PoV [[User:J-b|jb]] 09:52, 27 June 2007 (CEST)
:::::: Where did the CSS go ?!? (Do you need special rights to edit the main skin page?) [[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 11:53, 27 June 2007 (CEST)
::::::: @j-b: Well yeah that's a feature, though I can read it pretty well using FF2 + Windows ClearType. Well to improve readability I could lighten the stripes, tell me if you want me to do so.
:::::::@dionoea: I removed the css from my profile as it is now implemented as the default skin. http://wiki.videolan.org/skins/monobook/main.css <- there the css is located now. And yes you need special rights to edit [[Main Page]]. - [[User:Altglass|Altglass]] 14:03, 27 June 2007 (CEST)
:::::::: Hum, looks like my proxy wasn't updating the css correclty. (and about the rights question, I was asking if you wanted those rights or not in case they were needed) [[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 16:14, 27 June 2007 (CEST)
:::::::: Btw, I couldn't find your edit to the main css in the recent changes log. Previous css modifications were done on page [[MediaWiki:Monobook.css]]. Where did your change go? [[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 16:21, 27 June 2007 (CEST)
Starting from the left again ;) I mailed the images and css to j-b and he overwrote the main.css
I don't think that I need rights to edit  the [[Main Page]]. [[User:Altglass|Altglass]] 15:46, 28 June 2007 (CEST)