VideoLAN comes with a selection of Video Output modules. These can display output on almost any computer.

If you don't want any video, you can use the '''--no-video''' option.


== Output Modules ==

To select one of these modules, use the '''-V''' ('''--vout''') command line option, eg:
 vlc my.avi -V caca


=== image ===
Save all the frames of a video as a sequence of images. You can select the output format using '''--image-out-format''' (currently you can only choose png), and the start of the file name with '''--image-out-prefix'''. Finally, to create an image once out of a number of frames, give that number to '''--image-out-ratio'''. For example,
 vlc [[v4l]]:// --image-out-prefix=webcam --image-out-ratio=20
will create a series of images named
 webcam000001.png
 webcam000002.png
 webcam000003.png
 ...


=== aa, caca ===
ASCII Art modules. '''aa''' displays output in black and white, '''[[caca]]''' in colour.


=== x11 ===
Use Linux's X11 video output


=== xvideo ===
XVideo extension video output, a more advanced form of X11.


=== glx, opengl ===
Use OpenGL video output

=== dummy ===
Don't show output

  
== Cloning ==

To display output in more than one window, video cloning can be used. To use this, specify
 --vout-filter=clone
on the [[command prompt|command line]]: this tells vlc to use cloning. You also need to tell vlc what output modules you want with, for example,
 --clone-vout-filter=''caca,glx''
 --clone-count=''2''

== Changing video output ==
If you wish to change your video output module without using the command line, here's how to proceed:
=== Qt Interface ===
* Go to tools -> preferences (or press Ctrl+P)
* Select the Video tab
* Select another video output module by changing the "Output" combo-box
* Stop any playback
* Launch the playback again
=== Macosx Interface ===
'''TODO'''

{{stub}}

[[Category:Documentation]]