{{howto|crop the video}}
== What is cropping? ==
Cropping refers to the removal of the outer parts of an image. So it remove something from left, right, top and/or bottom of image. Usually with videos cropping is used to change aspect ratio by cutting something out (known as Pan and scan method).  

== How to do it QT4 ==
From QT4 GUI you can enable cropping from '''Tools -> Preferences...''' (Show settings: All) then '''Video''' and '''Video cropping''' field.

or 

'''Tools''' -> '''Effects and Filters''' (Ctrl+E) then '''Video Effects''' -> '''Crop''', and set the values.

== How to do it from command-line/terminal/shell ==
For [[aspect ratio]]s, no module is needed. Any of these adapt video to a 16:9 aspect ratio:
 vlc input "--crop=16:9"
 vlc input "--aspect-ratio=16:9"
 vlc input "--aspect-ratio=1.777"

For cropping and padding, use croppadd.

Add 100 pixels to the top of the video:
 vlc input "--video-filter=croppadd{paddtop=100}"
Remove 100 pixels from the left of the video:
 vlc input "--video-filter=croppadd{cropleft=100}"
Both:
 vlc input "--video-filter=croppadd{paddtop=100,cropleft=100}"

=== Old way ===
If you want to crop local video with command-line/terminal parameters, use
 vlc input --vout-filter=crop --crop-geometry=120x120+10+10
120x120 is the wanted resolution (in pixels), and 10+10 is the top-left position where the cropping should start (in pixels)

or if you want certain aspect ratio
 vlc input --vout-filter=crop --crop-ratio=1777
where 1777 is aspect ratio you want (divide it with 1000 to get correct value, in this case 1,777 aka 16:9)

{{DEFAULTSORT:Crop}}