__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__
<!-- Beginning of the banner section -->
{{Banner
|description=A directory of everything to do with the development of VideoLAN's projects.<br />
Check [[VLC media player|VLC's page]] to get info on VLC.
|links=
* [[VideoLAN]]
* [[VLC media player]]
** [https://addons.videolan.org Add-ons]
* [[Documentation:Documentation|Documentation]]
* [[VideoLAN_Sites#Developers|Developers' Sites]]
|links2=
* [https://www.videolan.org/developers Developer Zone]
* [https://nightlies.videolan.org Nightly builds]
* [https://jenkins.videolan.org Automatic builds]
|links3=
* [https://trac.videolan.org Trac, bugs, features, roadmap]
* [https://www.videolan.org/videolan/mirrors.html Mirrors check]
* [ftp://ftp.videolan.org/pub/videolan/ Main FTP]
}}
<!-- End of the banner section -->

== Coding on VLC ==
* [[Getting Started At Coding|Get started at coding on VLC]]
* Get the [[GetTheSource|Source Code]] and [[Compile VLC]]
* You might be interested in our [[Mini Projects]] or [[GCodeIn_Ideas|Janitorial projects]]
* Read our [[Hacker_Guide|Hacker's Guide]]
** [[Hacker_Guide/Core|Introduction to VLC's core]]
** [[Hacker Guide/How To Write a Module|How to write a module]]
** [[Documentation:VLC_Modules_Loading|How VLC modules load]]
* [https://www.videolan.org/developers/vlc/doc/doxygen/html/ Code documentation]
* [[Code Conventions]]

=== VLC development links ===
* [https://trac.videolan.org/vlc/ Trac] list of bugs
* vlc-devel [https://www.videolan.org/developers/lists.html mailing list], mailing list.
* [https://www.videolan.org/developers/i18n/ Translation information and stats]
* [https://www.openhub.net/p/vlc Open Hub] statistics
* [https://jenkins.videolan.org Jenkins] (Automatic builds)
* [[Nightly build]]s
* Launchpad ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/vlc/+bugs?field.searchtext=vlc&orderby=-date_last_updated&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=Unconfirmed&field.status%3Alist=Confirmed&field.status%3Alist=In+Progress&field.status%3Alist=Needs+Info&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Committed&field.assignee=&field.owner=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package= recent bug changes]) ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/vlc/+bugs all bugs])
* [https://code.videolan.org/ code.videolan.org]
* [https://git.videolan.org/ git.videolan.org]

== Current technical discussions on VLC ==
* [[Usability Complaints]]
* [[WaylandIntegration|Wayland integration]]

=== Past discussions ===
* [[VoutRework|Vout Rework]] - improving the video output subsystem.
* [[telnet rc rewrite]] - Merging the "telnet" and "rc" controls.
* [[SimplePreferences|Simple Preferences]] - We wish to add a "simple" preferences mode, additionally to the full mode we already have.
* [[QtIntfTODO|Qt Interface TODO]] - A brand new qt4 interface ... in order to get rid of wxWidgets.
** [[QtIntfMockups]]
*** [[QtImageset]]
*** [[QtIntfMockups-DericksIdea]]
* [[Qt and GTK]]
* [[DBus-spec]] - Specification for a Common, Desktop neutral, Media Player D-Bus interface.
* [[StatsSystem |Stats System]]
* [[InteractionSystem]] - Interaction System
* [[MediaControlAPI|Media Control API]] - a '''OUTDATED''' high level player-independent media API 
* [[0.8.5StringReview]]
* [[2005StringsReview]]
* [[Libavcodec regressions]]
* [[Mobile Features]]
* [[AndroidTODO]] - moved to [https://trac.videolan.org/vlc/report/27 Trac report 27]
* [[SDI API]] - Linux-related: regarding [[wikipedia:Serial digital interface|SDI]] cards for [[V4l2]]
* [[Newplaylist]]
* [[Newsoundslider]]
* [[BOMM3U]] - [[wikipedia:Byte order mark|Byte order mark]] for [[M3U]] playlists. <code>#EXTM3U</code> means [[wikipedia:M3U#Extended_M3U|Extended M3U]]

=== Design ===
* [[WebsiteRedesign|Website Redesign]] and [[WebsiteDesign|Design Proposals]]
* [[DefaultSkinRequirements|Default Skin Requirements]] - Specifications of an eligible skin for default skin.

[[Category:Development]]