{{Historical|see [[WinCECompile]]}}

== Introduction  ==

This guide is to compile and build VLC for Windows CE devices. These are the versions used for this guide: 

   - Ubuntu 9.04 jaunty
   - vlc 1.0.2 ( version from git )
   

== Installing Cross-compile Tools  ==

1) Download the latest arm-wince-mingw32ce from [http://cegcc.sourceforge.net/ Sourceforge] 

2) untar it on / ( tar command with -C / ) 

            &nbsp;% sudo apt-get install bzip2
            &nbsp;% bzip2 -d &lt;your-version&gt;.tar.bz2
            &nbsp;% sudo tar xvf &lt;your-version&gt;.tar -C /
 

<br> 3) get wince tools from [http://eleves.ec-lille.fr/~couprieg/divers/wince.tar.gz WinCE-Tools] 

3.1)Untar it: 

           &nbsp;% sudo tar xvzf wince.tar.gz -C /

== Getting VLC Source  ==

1) Get git. 

   &nbsp;% sudo  apt-get install git-buildpackage

2) Retrieve the last vlc version from git repository 

   &nbsp;% git clone git://git.videolan.org/vlc.git

== Getting additional tools  ==

  &nbsp;% sudo  apt-get install libtool
  &nbsp;% sudo  apt-get install autotools-dev
  &nbsp;% sudo  apt-get install libgcrypt11-dev
  &nbsp;% sudo  apt-get install autoconf
   

Finally build the symbolics links ( sometimes is not necessary ). 

Create symbolic links from /opt/mingw32ce/bin/* to /usr/bin/ --&gt; Preserve the original names. 

== Building VLC  ==

Now is time to build VLC. 

  &nbsp;% cd vlc
  &nbsp;% ./bootstrap
   

Configure: 

<br> 

 &nbsp;% PATH=/opt/mingw32ce/bin:/opt/mingw32ce/arm-mingw32ce/bin:$PATH \
  CC="arm-mingw32ce-gcc" \
  CXX="arm-mingw32ce-g++" \
  CFLAGS="-I/usr/wince/include -I/opt/mingw32ce/arm-mingw32ce/include  -mwin32 -D __COREDLL__ -D _WIN32_WCE=0x0500" \
  CPPFLAGS="-I/usr/wince/include -I/opt/mingw32ce/arm-mingw32ce/include  -mwin32 -D __COREDLL__ -D _WIN32_WCE=0x0500" \
  LDFLAGS="-L/opt/mingw32ce/arm-mingw32ce/lib -L/usr/wince/lib" ./configure --host=arm-mingw32ce \
       --disable-sdl --disable-gtk \
            --disable-dvdnav --disable-dvdread --disable-avformat \
            --disable-postproc --disable-hal --disable-nls    \
            --enable-sout --enable-vlm --disable-wxwindows \
            --disable-a52 --enable-libmpeg2 --disable-freetype \
            --disable-libgcrypt --disable-fribidi --disable-mad \
            --disable-optimize-memory --disable-audioscrobbler \
            --disable-tremor --disable-faad --enable-ffmpeg --disable-avcodec \
            --enable-vlc --disable-activex --disable-testsuite --disable-skins2 \
            --disable-qt4 --disable-notify --disable-httpd --disable-dbus-control \
            --disable-growl --disable-telepathy --disable-lua --disable-vlm \
            --disable-gnutls --disable-bonjour --disable-x11 --disable-glx \
            --disable-xvideo --disable-remoteosd --disable-schroedinger \
            --disable-dshow --enable-wingdi --disable-real --disable-realrtsp \
            --disable-optimizations --enable-debug \
            --enable-wince --enable-waveout --disable-directx --disable-x264 \
            --disable-live555 --disable-pulse --disable-swscale --disable-telnet --disable-libmpeg2

  &nbsp;% make

  &nbsp;% make package-wince

Now your VLC is ready!!! You will have a zip file ready to be unzipped on your device. 

== Final tasks  ==

Copy this dll in the install directory 

 - libiconv-2.dll  ( Need to be cross-compiled )
 - libcharset-1.dll  ( Need to be cross-compiled )
 - libgcc_s_sjlj-1.dll  ( mingw32ce provides it )
 - libstdc++-6.dll ( mingw32ce provides it )

== Finished  ==

This guide provides a way to build an executable vlc for WINCE, but it is not working ok, since the GUI is not responding properly. 

I am still working on it, so if anyone achieve some progress please contact me. And of course, if you have any doubt, question or find something wrong in this post don't hesitate to contact me. --[[User:Hectorhg|HectorHg]] 13:47, 1 October 2009 (UTC) 

[[Category:Coding]] [[Category:Building]]
[[Category:Windows]]