{{Lowercase}} '''x264''' is a free software library for encoding
[[H.264/MPEG-4 AVC]] video streams.

The code is written by Loren Merritt, Laurent Aimar, Eric Petit, Min
Chen, Justin Clay, Måns Rullgård, Radek Czyz, Alex Izvorski, Alex
Wright, Jason and Christian Heine from scratch.

'''x264''' is one of the most popular video compression libraries in the
world, used worldwide for applications such as web video, television
broadcast, and Blu-ray authoring. It outclasses practically all
commercial implementations both speed and compression-wise. While not
actually part of {{VLC}} or [[FFmpeg]], it is a major library used by
both, licensed under the GPL. Due to its popularity in the commercial
world (for example, Youtube and Facebook rely on it), many companies
have offered bounties in the past for features and improvements that
they found useful.

'''x264''' has a strong user community based at [http://www.Doom9.org
Doom9] where discussions for improved development take place.

== Developers ==

-  [https://www.videolan.org/developers/x264.html x264 home page]
-  [[x264 Development Newsletters]]
-  [[x264 Development Notes]]
-  [[x264 TODO]]
-  [[x264 asm intro]]

An overview of x264's structure and algorithms can be found
[http://akuvian.org/src/x264/overview_x264_v8_5.pdf here]. It is
somewhat outdated, but still mostly accurate. Do note that understanding
this is not necessary for developing on x264.

On a lighter note, feel free to check out the
[http://www.x264.nl/developers/Dark_Shikari/loren.html x264 developer
quotes page].

== Start developping on x264 == === Guide to getting involved === \* Hop
on IRC--whenever! We have a friendly community that's happy to help and
to talk about pretty much whatever. #x264 is the general discussion/user
help channel and #x264dev is the development-only channel (Freenode
server). If you've never used IRC, grab Chatzilla. There is no such
thing as a stupid question--only stupid people--so don't worry about
sounding dumb. Just get involved! \* Ask questions--I cannot stress this
enough. We've had students who couldn't get anywhere because they were
stuck--but didn't ask questions! There's no shame in asking questions;
that's how everyone here got involved. \* '''Stay on IRC'''. Even if you
have nothing to say, being around lets you get to know the community,
get a feel for what's going on, and even sometimes help out by pointing
the semicolon I left at the end of my if statement. This applies during
the project period too: we expect all students to '''always be on
IRC'''. This doesn't mean you have to be actually active all the time,
but whenever you're free, you should be at least pingable on IRC, and
whenever you're working on Summer of Code, you should be active on IRC.
\*\* The best option for staying online is to get a remote shell account
of some sort and leave an IRSSI client on 24/7 in a screen. This lets
you easily come back in the morning and see if you missed anything
important. checkers can provide you with a shell if you end up being
accepted as a student. \* Even if you don't get a slot as a student, or
you don't qualify for Summer of Code, we will happily provide you with
the exact same support that we would give a student: it is quite
reasonable and not at all uncommon for us to have projects of similar
scale to Summer of Code be done by students who are not part of the
Summer of Code program.

=== Skills needed === These are required for all listed projects and
probably anything not listed, too. \* Basic C programming. \* Basic
understanding of video encoding, or at least willingness to do the
appropriate reading up on the topic before the summer begins. Most
people who get involved don't know much to start with; we don't expect
you to! \* To work on anything related directly to the encoder core (not
all projects), you'll need to do some significant background reading on
relevant topics.

== Demos == [http://lives.rm.org/demos/flyingskunk.mkv flyingskunk.mkv]
demo encoded with x264/vorbis/matroska - (96 MB, 640x480, 25 fps, 6
minutes), created using [http://lives.sourceforge.net LiVES]

[[Category:VideoLAN projects]]
