Here are the following companies which back [[VideoLAN]].

== Partners == === FREE ===

The French <abbr title="Internet service provider">ISP</abbr> Free <abbr
title="Société par actions simplifiée">S.A.S</abbr> hosts 3 of our
[[servers]] in one of their data centres near Paris.<br /> Free is also
using {{VLC}} for their FreePlayer project.

Free hosted and sponsored our first [[VDD|DevDays]] in 2008.

=== GANDI ===

Gandi is a one of most popular registrars in France and in Europe.
Founded in 1999, and based in Paris and in London, it has a long history
of quality, proximity to people and decent prices.<br /> Gandi has
always cultivated its difference and humanity, and supports many
projects following VideoLAN's ideals.

Gandi supports VideoLAN by managing their domain names and helping the
VideoLAN association in various administrative tasks.

=== Puget Systems ===

Puget Systems donated an Echo II to the project to aid in development of
GPU acceleration on Intel graphics.<br /> Puget Systems is well known
for their quiet computers, exceptional customer service, and the
ever-popular Aquarium Computer. They offer a multitude of custom-built
computers ranging from gaming and desktop, to liquid-cooled and trading
computers.

=== Panasonic ===

Panasonic Deutschland, a division of Panasonic Marketing Europe GmbH,
lent us a SC-XH150 setup consisting of a S/PDIF-input-capable DVD player
and a 5.1 speaker set, which allowed us to fix the optical audio output
on [[macOS|OS X Lion]].

=== HP ===

HP gave us a DL385 server which is now running most of the VideoLAN web
sites and development tools : WWW, Forum, Downloads, SVN and Trac. This
web server was shipped with two AMD Opteron 2.4 GHz CPUs, 8 GB RAM and
436 GB SCSI hard drives. VideoLAN also won a nice HP laptop at Journées
du Libre.

== Former partners == === IBM ===

IBM gave servers to VIA to host VideoLAN services and awarded VideoLAN
in the Linux Challenge, an international challenge for [[open source]]
projects developed by university students.

[[Category:Companies|*]]
