{{RightMenu|documentation streaming howto toc}}

Authors: \* Alexis de Lattre \* Johan Bilien \* Anil Daoud \* Cl√©ment
Stenac \* Antoine Cellerier \* Jean-Paul Saman

Copyright (c) 2002-2006 the VideoLAN project

''{{GPL notice}}''

'''This document explains how to stream, transcode and save streams
using the VideoLAN solution'''

'''NOTE: See [[Documentation:Streaming HowTo New|Streaming HowTo New]]
for more updated information regarding streaming (WIP).'''

==Introduction== \*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Streaming, Muxers and
Codecs|Streaming, Muxers and Codecs]]

==Main== \*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Easy Streaming|Easy
Streaming]]

\*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Easy_Streaming Newer Versions|Easy
Streaming with Newer Versions of VLC (not completed)]]

\*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Advanced Streaming Using the Command
Line|Advanced Streaming Using the Command Line]]

\*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Command Line Examples|Command Line
Examples]]

==VLM== \*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/VLM|VLM - Multiple Streaming
and Video on Demand]]

==Tutorials and examples== \*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Receive and
Save a Stream|Receive and Save a Stream]]

\*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo New|Convert files to other formats]]

\*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Stream a File|Stream a File]]

\*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Stream a DVD|Stream a DVD]]

\*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Stream a DVB Channel|Stream a DVB
Channel]]

\*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Stream from Encoding Cards and Other
Capture Devices|Stream from Encoding Cards and Other Capture Devices]]

\*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Stream from a DV Camcorder|Stream from
a DV Camcorder]]

\*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Streaming a live video feed to Darwin
Streaming Server for Mobile Phones|Streaming a live video feed to Darwin
Streaming Server for Mobile Phones]]

\*[[Documentation:Streaming_HowTo/Streaming_for_the_iPhone|Streaming for
the iPhone with live http]]

==IPv6== \*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Streaming over IPv6|Streaming
over IPv6]]

\*[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Advanced streaming with samples,
multiple files streaming, using multicast in streaming|Advanced
streaming with samples, multiple files streaming, using multicast in
streaming]]

{{Documentation}}
