Import from the original doxygen documentation is finished. You can
start editing it. Enjoy! [[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 11:12, 7 November 2006
(CET)

== Formatting: Put authors' names in the ''discussion'' page ==

I'd suggest de-emphasizing the authors of this article. For one, this
will change as more authors edit this wiki. In a sense they are credited
in the article's ''history'' page, but, of course, the basic principle
of a wiki is that the authors are relatively anonymous.

But my suggestion is mostly based on what a reader wants to know. He/she
is not so much interested in the authors as in getting information.
Hence, I'd suggest the information come first in this, and all other
articles, and the authors, if they need to be listed
[http://frontierlumber.net/decking/Rhino/ rhino deck] at all, be moved
to the ''discussion'' pages.

Just my 2 cents...

--[[User:Jeremy ButlerDionoea]] 17:53, 9 July 2007 (CEST) ::I made the
changes. Also, the GPL notice is duplicated in various templates.
Perhaps it and the copyright notice should be moved to the footer. I
believe that MediaWiki gives you the option of automatically inserting a
GPL notice. :::Where is it duplicated? AFAIK it's only automatically
inserted if you use the Documentation template (at least that's how I
planed it to work). [[User:DionoeaJeremy Butler]] 20:26, 9 July 2007
(CEST) :::::I'd rather have the copyright notice right after the title
(seems to be the way it's done in most manuals online). And maybe change
it from (c) VideoLAN project to (c) VideoLAN project and it's
contributors [[User:DionoeaJeremy Butler]] 13:15, 10 July 2007 (CEST)
:::::::Well in fact the VideoLAN project doesn't exist as a Legal entity
either so theoretically it can't hold copyright either. To be on the
safe side we'd need to mention all the authors in the copyright notice,
with the appropriate date for each author unless they explicitly mention
that they give up their copyright (or relinquish it in favor of some
other legal entity). And licensing terms are a different concept from a
copyright as far as I understand. (One could argue that an author keeps
copyright on what he writes even if it's not stated explicitly anywhere,
but I still think that we should mention it to emphasise, as do most
open source projects I checked on. This page on the FSF website has some
details: http://www.fsf.org/blogs/licensing/20050325novalis.html ) --
[[User:DionoeaJeremy Butler]] 19:53, 10 July 2007 (CEST) Copyright (c)
YEAR YOUR NAME. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify
this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no
Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section
entitled "GNU Free Documentation License". :::::::::Changing the license
to something that isn't GPL compliant would require the authorisation of
all the current authors (that's far from being impossible ... but is it
really worth it?). This is what it used to look like before I began
moving the doc on the wiki:
http://www.videolan.org/doc/play-howto/en/play-howto-en.html . Copying
what we used there would be fine IMO. [[User:DionoeaJeremy Butler]]
13:25, 11 July 2007 (CEST)

==Copyright policy== This discussion reminds me that there's currently a
redlink to [[VideoLAN Wiki:Copyrights]] on the editing form. Once the
VideoLAN copyright policy is established, I guess it should be stuck in
there. Also, I note that these "policy" articles are empty, too:
[[VideoLAN Wiki:Privacy policy]] and [[VideoLAN Wiki:General
disclaimer]]. So many details when you're putting a wiki together!
Regards --[[User:Jeremy Butler|Jeremy Butler]] 19:53, 10 July 2007
(CEST)

== Original authors ==

The original authors of this documentation were: \* Alexis de Lattre \*
Anil Daoud \* Benjamin Pracht \* Cl√©ment Stenac \* Jean-Paul Saman \*
Antoine Cellerier
