{{Languages}} {{RightMenu|Documentation TOC}} Read on for a quick
overview of VLC's features and capabilities.

=Starting VLC= ===Windows=== \* In Windows XP: Click '''Start''' ->
'''Programs''' -> '''VideoLAN''' -> '''VLC media player'''. \* In
Windows 7: Click '''Start''' -> '''All Programs''' -> '''VideoLAN''' ->
'''VLC media player'''.

VLC is shown on the screen and a small icon {{VLC icon}} is shown in the
system tray.

===macOS=== Start VLC from the applications menu or the system dock.

VLC is shown on the screen and a small icon {{VLC icon}} is shown in the
dock.

===Linux=== Start VLC from the command line with '''vlc''' or start it
from your desktop environment's application launcher.

=Interface= ===The main interface=== {\| 500px]] -''' VLC media player
on [[Windows]] and [[Linux]]''' '''VLC media player on [[macOS]]'''
colspan="2"\| { 1 : Menu Bar<br> 2 : Elapsed Time<br> 3 : Seek Bar<br> 4
: Total/Remaining Time<br> 5 : Play/Pause<br> 6 : Previous<br> 7 :
Stop<br> 8 : Next<br> 9 : Toggle Fullscreen<br> 10 : Extended
Settings<br> 11 : Show Playlist<br> 12 : Loop<br> 13 : Random<br> 14 :
Volume Control<br> }

===More interface informations=== Go to [[Documentation:Interface]]

=Play a media=

===Play a single media file=== Find a media file you want to play with
your favourite File Explorer (Windows Explorer, Finder, Konqueror...)
and double-click on it.

You can also drag and drop the file onto VLC.

===Play a whole media folder=== Start VLC, open the ''Media'' menu, and
select the ''Open Folder...'' menu item. An ''Open Folder'' dialog box
will appear. Select the folder you want to open and select ''Open''.

===Play a CD/DVD/VCD=== Insert your disk and your OS should ask you what
you want to do. Select ''Play with VLC'' and select the OK button.

===More open options=== Go to [[Documentation:Open Media]]

<br>

=Preferences=

=== Where are the VLC preferences? === {\| To open the ''Preferences''
panel, open the Tools menu , and select the ''Preferences'' menu item.
550x550px]] height="10"\| Here is the Simple Preferences panel where you
can modify the essential settings of VLC. 550x550px]] \|}

=== How to reset the VLC preferences? === Go to [[VSG:ResetPrefs]]

=Playlist view=

===Overview=== This view allows you to easily browse different sources
of media. To access the Playlist View, click on the ''Playlist'' button
in the main interface.

{\| { 1:|-2:|-3:|-4:|-5:|-6:|- [[File:PlaylistView-Windows 8.png}

===More Playlist options=== Go to [[Documentation:Playlist]]

{{Documentation}}
