{{Languages}} Thank you for visiting this page to find out what {{VLC}}
is all about. '''Please Note''': this page is ''Under Construction'' and
might change in the near future.

VLC media player (or VLC for short) is a FREE and Open Source Software
Media Player. Features that make VLC the preferred media player for a
lot of people are its excellent support for various Audio and Video
codecs, the fact that it's cross platform and the open way of
development.

This page describes the basic use of VLC. See [[Documentation:Play
HowToVLC Streaming HowTo]] for advanced streaming features.

== Prerequisites ==

To use VLC you need: *A computer with
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet Internet] access and an internet
(web) browser (to [http://www.videolan.org/vlc/#download download
VLC]).<br />[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BrXPcaRlBqo What is a web
browser?]*\ Media (audio or video)
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_file files] or
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optical_disc Disc]
([http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optical_disc_drive optical drive]
required to play discs). *Audio output hardware (speakers, headphones)
for audio playback.*\ Knowledge about working with computer files and
folders.<br
/>[http://windows.microsoft.com/en-US/windows7/Working-with-files-and-folders
Working with files and folders] ([http://windows.microsoft.com MSFT
Windows])<br />[http://support.apple.com/kb/PH3725 How to open documents
and folders] ([http://www.apple.com/macos/ macOS])<br
/>[https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-help/files.html Files, folders &
search] ([http://ubuntu.com Ubuntu])

== The main interface ==

=== Interface overview === The following picture shows the names of the
main controls in the VLC interface:

[[File:Interface1.png%7C800px]]

'''Note:''' This picture corresponds to the Windows XP version. In other
systems, VLC might look slightly different.

=== Menu bar ===

[[Image:Menu bar.png|430x22px]]

The menu bar at the top contains commands that control VLC.

=== Track slider ===

[[Image:Track slider.png|433x16px]]<br> The track slider is on top of
the control buttons. It shows the progress of playing of the media file.
You can drag the track slider left to rewind or right to forward the
track being played.

Two timers at the left and right ends of the track slider show the
current playing position (left) and the total time (right) of the
current track.

'''Note:''' When a media file is streamed (live), the position indicator
of the track slider does not move because the total duration of the
streaming is not known until it finishes.

=== Control buttons ===

[[Image:Control buttons.png|285x34px]]

The buttons below the slider control the playback.

From left to right they are:

*Play/Pause.*\ Previous media in the playlist. *Stop playback.*\ Next
media in the playlist. *Toggle fullscreen (video only).*\ Show extended
settings: Audio effects, Video effects and Synchronization. *Show
playlist.*\ Repeat: toggles among loop all, loop one, no loop (default).
\*Random: Plays the files in the current playlist in a random order.

=== Volume control ===

[[Image:Volume control.png|104x34px]]

The volume control is located in the bottom right corner of the window.
The small speaker icon is a button that mutes ([[File:Vlc 098a mute
on.jpg]]) or un-mutes ([[File:Vlc 098a mute off.jpg|17x17px]]) the
sound. The triangle to the right is a slider that shows the current
playback volume. Clicking this slider modifies the volume. The playback
volume is also displayed as a percentage number on top of this slider.

== Windows notification area (system tray) icon ==

When you start VLC media player, the application appears on the screen
and a small icon {{VLC icon}} appears in the notification area (system
tray). Clicking once this icon will hide VLC, and clicking it again will
show it again. Hiding VLC does not close it, it continues to run in the
background. Right clicking this icon brings up a menu with the following
controls: *''Hide/Show VLC media player''.*''Play/Pause/Stop playback''.
*''Switch to Previous/Next track''.*''Speed control''.
*''Increase/Decrease volume''.*''Mute''. *''Open media''.*''Quit''.

== Tutorials ==

*[[Documentation:Play_HowTo/Installing_VLC|Installing
VLC]][[Documentation:Play_HowTo/Installing_VLC#Windows|Windows]][[Documentation:Play_HowTo/Installing_VLC#macOS|macOS]][[Documentation:Play_HowTo/Installing_VLC#Linux|Linux]]*\ [[Documentation:Play_HowTo/Basic_Use/InterfacePlaying
media from your optical reader]] (CD, DVD, Blu-Ray)
\**[[Documentation:Play_HowTo/Basic_Use/Interface#Stopping_VLC_Media_Player|Closing
VLC]]

== See also == *[[VLC HowTo]]*\ [[Documentation:Play HowTo]]

*[[Common Problems]]*\ [[Hotkeys]] \**[[How to set global hotkeys]]

== External Links == *[http://www.videolan.org/support/faq.html
F.A.Q.]*\ [http://windows.microsoft.com/en-US/windows/help Windows Help
and How-to] *[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BrXPcaRlBqo What is a web
browser?]*\ [http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCCCDDDC322A8AA82
Video tutorials (selected by Jan)]

{{Languages}} [[Category:Documentation]] [[Category:Stubs]]
