This documentation explains how to stream, transcode and save streams
using [[VLC media player]].

'''NOTE: This is work in progress. For a more complete, yet outdated,
documentation on Streaming with VLC please see the old
[[Documentation:Streaming HowTo|Streaming HowTo]].'''

==Introduction== VLC media player is able to stream, transcode and save
different media streams. For more information about the formats and
codecs supported please see the
[https://www.videolan.org/streaming-features.html VideoLAN Streaming
Features list].

==Transcoding== [[Transcode|Transcoding]] is the process of taking a
media file or stream and converting it to a different format or
bitrate.<br /> There are two methods for transcoding in VLC: via the GUI
(VLC's default interface) or via the commandline. The term ''transcode''
by itself normally refers to converting one media format to another and
saving the output to a file (i.e. no streaming involved).

===Transcoding using the GUI=== One of the methods of transcoding is via
the [[GUI]]. To access this: #In VLC, go to "Media >> Convert / Save..."
(Ctrl+R). #Add the input file(s) or stream(s) you want to transcode.
Press "Convert / Save". #In the "Convert" windows specify the
destination file name (including file extension - e.g. on Windows
"C:out.mp3"). #Select the desired codec from the profile list. To
check/edit the settings of a given profile press the "Edit selected
profile" button. Profiles can also be added/deleted. #Press "Start". If
the profile settings were compatible and transcoding was successful, a
playable destination file should be created.

[[File:Basic_interface_convert.png]]

===Using the commandline=== Another method of transcoding is via the
[[commandline]]. This is more flexible than via the GUI as it enables
full usage of the modules and options available in VLC.

To use the VLC's commandline you need to have access to the commandline
interface, for example via a shell.

====Windows-based systems==== On Windows-based systems the Command
Prompt can be used. This can be found in the "Accessories" folder of the
Start menu. Alternatively by going to "Start >> Run..." or pressing
"Windows key + R", entering "cmd" into the text field and press "OK" or
Enter.

Once the Command Prompt window is opened navigating to the folder/directory where VLC is located is easiest for using the commandline as only "vlc.exe" or "vlc" (as the .exe part is assumed) needs to entered to run VLC. If VLC is installed in the default location (on a 32-bit system) running:
   cd "C:Program FilesVideoLANVLC"

Should change to the directory where vlc.exe is located.

====Unix systems==== On Unix-based system (such as Linux and macOS) a
terminal window can be opened. Running "vlc" should be all that is
needed to open VLC: ../VLC.app/Contents/MacOS/VLC

====Transcoding commandline string structure==== A typical commandline
string for converting a file to another format is: vlc --sout
"#transcode{[TRANSCODE_OPTIONS]}:std{[OUTPUT_OPTIONS]}" INPUT Where
<code>INPUT</code> is the input stream, <code>[TRANSCODE_OPTIONS]</code>
are the options set for the desired output format, [[codec]]s,
[[bitrate]] etc. and <code>[OUTPUT_OPTIONS]</code> are the option set
for the output type. <code>--sout</code> is the stream output
commandline option.

====Example commandline: Converting an audio file to a MP3 file==== An
example usage might be converting an audio file to a MP3 file: vlc
--sout
"#transcode{acodec=mp3,ab=128,channels=2,samplerate=44100}:std{access=file,mux=raw,dst=OUTPUT}"
INPUT Where INPUT is the input file and OUTPUT is the destination file
(for example "C:out.mp3" on Windows or "/home/username/out.mp3" on a
\*nix system). The above sout string is the default "Audio - MP3"
profile setting accessible via the GUI. It will convert an audio input
to a 128kbps [[CBR]] MP3 file (sample rate 44100Hz, 2 channels).

====Other examples commandline strings==== Convert an audio input to an
uncompressed WAVE (*.wav) file: vlc --sout
"#transcode{acodec=s16l,channels=2,samplerate=44100}:std{access=file,mux=wav,dst=OUTPUT}"
INPUT Convert an audio input to an AAC file (MP4 container): vlc --sout
"#transcode{acodec=mp4a,ab=128,channels=2,samplerate=44100}:std{access=file,mux=mp4,dst=OUTPUT}"
INPUT

==Streaming==

===Streaming using the GUI=== Streaming using the [[GUI]] is only
available on the Qt interface. To stream using the GUI, open VLC, then
Media [menu] -> Stream:
[[File:Qt4_Streaming_Starting.png%7Cframe%7Ccenter%7CLaunching the
Wizard]]

Select a stream (such as a file, a network stream, a disk, a capture
device ...) from the "Open Media" dialogs that pops up.

[[File:Qt4_Streaming_File_Select.png%7Cframe%7Ccenter%7CAfter selecting
an item, the wizard is ready to begin]]

The following streaming methods are available for use with VLC:
*''Display locally'': display the stream on your screen. This allows you
to display the stream you are actually streaming. Effects of
transcoding, rescaling, etc. can be monitored locally using this
function.*''File'': Save the stream to a file. *''HTTP'': Use the HTTP
streaming method. Specify the TCP port number on which to
listen.*''MS-WMSP (MMSH)'': This access method allows you to stream to
Microsoft Windows Media Player. Specify the IP address and TCP port
number on which to listen. Note: This will only work with the ''ASF''
encapsulation method. *''UDP'': Stream in unicast by providing an
address in the 0.0.0.0 - 223.255.255.255 range or in multicast by
providing an address in the 224.0.0.0 - 239.255.255.255 range. It is
also possible to stream to IPv6 addresses. Note: This will only work
with the ''TS'' encapsulation method.*''RTP'': Use the Real-Time
Transfer Protocol. Like UDP, it can use both unicast and multicast
addresses. \*''IceCast'': Stream to an IceCast server. Specify the
address, port, mount point and authentication of the IceCast server to
stream to.

The most common way is via [[HTTP]]. To stream via HTTP, click on
"Destinations", choose HTTP from the drop down as a "New Destination"
and click add. Now if you are streaming video, you will want to stream
to something like "/go.mpg." Now hit stream, and you should be able to
use a different instance of VLC as a client, and listen to that stream
now (ex: on the same computer it would be "Media" [menu] -> Open Network
Stream -> "http://localhost:8080/go.mpg" and it should work.

[[File:Qt4_Streaming_Stream_Options.png%7Cframe%7Ccenter%7CWizard
streaming method]]

A few caveats: \* even though you click on "enable transcoding" and
specify some other container type, it will give you the [[flv]]
container type unless you use a suffix, like ".mpg"
[http://forum.videolan.org/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=80722 ref] \* VLC client
cannot receive a stream at less than 5 fps, though it can stream it
alright for those speeds (and other players can receive it).
[https://trac.videolan.org/vlc/ticket/214 ref]. \* NB that *many* times
when using the GUI to stream it will choose the wrong thing. For
example, if you give a path of "/" it will use FLV container type (which
you probably didn't want, and which overrides your transcoding settings'
container type *silently*), and if you give it "/go.mp4" it will
*silently* fail (you can look at the log messages to see what the error
isâ€”it says "mp4 type is not supported except for files"). It is tricky
to get it set up. It's like the GUI sets it up wrong most times. Here is
a [http://forum.videolan.org/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=80722 laundry list].

Select a transcoding profile that fits the codecs and access method of
your stream, such as [[MPEG-TS]], [[MPEG-PS]], [[MPEG-1]], [[Ogg]],
[[Raw]], [[ASF]], [[AVI]], [[MP4]] and [[MOV]]. You can also create or
modify profiles by clicking the "Edit selected profile" button next to
the selection combobox.
[[File:Qt4_Streaming_Transcoding.png%7Cframe%7Ccenter%7CTranscoding
options]]

Select methods to announce your stream. You can use SAP (Service
Announce Protocol) or SLP (Service Location Protocol). You must also
specify a channel name. The macOS interface also allows you to export
the description (SDP) file of a RTP session using the internal HTTP or
RTSP server of VLC, or as a file. This can be done using the according
checkboxes. The ''SDP URL'' text box allows to give the url or
destination where the SDP file will be available. There is a text box
displays the ''Stream Output MRL'' (Media Resource Locator). This is
updated as you change options in the Stream output dialog, and can be
tweaked by hand if necessary.
[[File:Qt4_Streaming_Misc.png%7Cframe%7Ccenter%7CSelecting methods to
announce the stream]]

Click "Stream" to start streaming.

===Streaming using the command line interface=== {{See
also|Documentation:Streaming HowTo/Command Line Examples}}

If you want to stream using the command line interface instead of the
GUI (more control, for example you can specify your own container), you
can "sniff" the options the GUI is using by opening up the logger (Tools
menu -> message) and setting verbosity level to "2" then doing a stream.
It will output debug messages that basically tell you what it is using
for command line parameters, then you will take those same parameters
and use them on the command line (you may need to add quotation marks
around words that have spaces in them, and you may need to add --'s).

An example is in a unique command line:

   C:Program FilesVideoLANVLC>vlc "C:UsersPublicVideosSample
   VideosWildlife.wmv":
   sout=#transcode{vcodec=h264,acodec=mp3,ab=128,channels=2,samplerate=44100}:http{dst=:8090/go.mpg}

==See also== \* [[Documentation:Streaming HowTo|Streaming HowTo]] -
Outdated HowTo for streaming with VLC \* [[Transcode]] - Further
information about transcoding with VLC

{{Documentation}}
