This page still needs some fixing and updating. [[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]]
00:12, 7 November 2006 (CET)

== Advanced Installation: Portable / Networked / Sandboxed / etc
(Debian) ==

The syntax here is for Debian (and thus Ubuntu etc too: this was tested
on Ubuntu 10.04), but it should be trivial to translate it to any other
modern distro.

There are times a normal install just isn't desirable or even possible,
and you need something a little bit more funky. (Maybe you could be
working on any of a number of virtualised machines and any point, and
putting VLC in the base image isn't an option; or you want to use an app
server, etc).

If you start with a "genuinely clean" machine and look at what will be
sucked in for a VLC install, it can be quite shocking: *72* base
packages, plus another 14 recommends/suggests, and ~100MB. That's more
than a 12% increase to the total size of the VM base image. More
importantly, it's 69 libraries that I have absolulely no use for outside
of VLC, and in fact explicitly '''don't''' want on the system where
things like nautilus will try to suck them in and use them (and they
represent 69 new attack vectors).

Don't misunderstand: this is the 'right' way to write software. But it's
not what I actually want in this case. What I want is a walled garden
for VLC, with only VLC allowed to use this (massive collection of) libs.

So, how do we manage that? Turns out it's actually really easy...

First we need to get the files 'somewhere': we just don't want them in
the "normal" package list. <pre> ~/$ mkdir vlc && cd vlc && mkdir -p
archives/partial ~/vlc$ sudo apt-get -d -o Dir::Cache=. install vlc
</pre> That will grab the packages from the repo, complete with all the
dependencies (if you have apt set to default to --no-recommends, you'll
need to add "vlc-plugin-pulse" or anything else you want as well) and
put them in our working directory.

Take a look at what's actually in a package, if you're curious: <pre>
~/vlc$ dpkg -c archives/libxcb-randr0_1.5-2_i386.deb

-rw-r--r-- root/root 34124 2010-01-20 03:11
./usr/lib/libxcb-randr.so.0.1.0 lrwxrwxrwx root/root 0 2010-01-20 03:10
./usr/lib/libxcb-randr.so.0 -> libxcb-randr.so.0.1.0 </pre>

There's a bunch of noise like manpages etc too, but these are the only
pieces that are actually important. There's the lib itself, a symlink
for versioning, and that's it. But here's what's brilliant: the files
are 'relative' paths, and that's what makes this so trivial...

<pre> ~/vlc$ find archives/*.deb -print \|xargs -t -I {} dpkg -x {} .
</pre>

That pulls all the libs out and drops them in our sandbox, and then
running vlc is as simple as:

<pre> ~/vlc$ export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=usr/lib/ ~/vlc$ usr/bin/vlc </pre>

and that's all there is to it. :D

You can use this to install vlc on an app share, without "polluting" any
of the clients and still allowing them to each keep their own
configuration in ~/.config/vlc/ 'Very' handy if e.g. you work on a
virtual machine where the base image is immutable and your home dir is
the only thing that persists between sessions; or a real machine that's
maintained by an IT dept.

A trivial variation on it will also let you create a "portable" version
of VLC that you can stick on a USB drive along with some music / videos
/ whatever and use on any machine.
