== What is it? ==

DVBlast is a streaming solution to stream multiple channels of TV to a
network. A DVB-Card (terrestrial, cable, satellite) or an ASI-Input-Card
from [http://www.computermodules.com/ Computer Modules] is needed to
provide input to DVBlast. Thanks to videocompression and ''some magic''
one frequency (so called "transponder" can hold multiple TV-channels. So
if your DVB-device is tuned to one frequecy, the whole so called
"bouquet" could be used by applications like DVBlast. More information
can be found on [http://www.videolan.org/projects/dvblast.html
videolan.org server].

== Get it == First place to get it:
[http://www.videolan.org/projects/dvblast.html videolan.org server]. You
have to compile it from source and you will need to install libdvbpsi in
order to make it work. You could also use your package manager. On
Ubuntu-based systems you could use ''sudo apt-get install dvblast'' for
example.

== Using it == First of all you have to know how channels and bouquets
are organized it your DVB-source. A could thing to start with is wscan,
which could output you a channels.conf, including a list of frequencies
to be tuned to and channels on a frequencyÂ´s bouquet. Easiest way to use
it is to create a config file, which could look like this one:

root@streamdev-01:~# cat freeHD.conf

239.255.0.1:1234 1 11100

239.255.0.2:1234 1 11110

239.255.0.3:1234 1 11120

First is the multicast-IP (and :port), which is causing DVBlast to
"blast" everything into the whole network. Be aware, that some
soho-routers/APs and switches have severe problems with the many packets
DVBlast generates and sends. My AVM Fritz!Box is rebooting as long as I
have DVBlast running the above config file (which broadcasts three
HD-streams simultaneously). Call "dvblast -c freeHD.conf" in a Kabel
Deutschland, Hamburg-based environment for this to work.

More to come, I will extend these explanations.
--[[User:Kakohari|Kakohari]] 07:09, 13 September 2011 (UTC)

[[Category:VideoLAN projects]]
