Here are the following ways to help us.

Direct access: \* You are a [[#Designer\| designer]] \* You are a
[[#Documentation \| writer]] \* You are someone who is proficient with
computers \* You have good English language skills \* You have
[[Mirrorscoder in C/C++/Objective-C/ASM]] \* You are a sysadmin (Linux)
\* You are a Maintainer/Packager \* You are Google \* You are Microsoft
\* You are Coverity \* You are Mozilla \* You are [[#Promote VLC|none of
the above]]

== Coder == If you are a programmer, you can help us by integrating the
project: \* New features \* Features improvement \* Bug Tracking \* Code
cleaning \* Porting to a new platform

If don't feel like taking on such a huge task, we suggest you take a
look at our [[Code Janitorial|Code Janitorial project page]].

If you don't feel comfortable working on code but are a native speaker
of the English language, look at [[QT4StringsReview|Strings Review]].

Also take a look at our [[Mini Projects]] Page.

Finally, VideoLAN offers [[Bounties]] for the development of specific
features.

Get started in the [[Developers Corner]].

== Maintainer / Packager == If you know how to package for your special
distribution/OS, please do so. Help us port {{VLC}} to as many platforms
as possible.

== Documentation == If you: \* Like writing \* Like VLC \* Have never
used VLC \* Run into a problem and end up solving it

'''You can help us make our documentation better!'''

Update the [[Documentation:documentation \| documentation]], edit this
wiki, create tutorials or provide answers on the
[http://forum.videolan.org forum].

Help us give the best support to everyone.

On each of these pages is a "Discussion link" &mdash; add something
there if you find a page here confusing or incorrect.

== Designer == You can help with your design skills by: \* Repairing and
updating the websites \* Create new [[skins]] \* Create new icons,
screenshots, etc&hellip; See the [[VideoLAN_Design|design]] page

== Tester == You can test and report bugs. You can enter the [[quality\|
quality team]].

== Promote VLC == You can help to promote VLC by: \* Subscribing to VLC
[http://freshmeat.net/projects/vlc/ on Freshmeat] \* Talking about VLC
to your friends and family \* Donating money

See [https://www.videolan.org/contribute.html here] for more details.

[[Category:About VideoLAN]]
