Hello, welcome to the VideoLAN Wiki Site!

The aim of this site is to create a site to help document the
[https://www.videolan.org VideoLAN software], a [[free]] and [[open
source]] media player and streaming solution. This site is a mixture of
[[Knowledge Basefrequently asked questions]] and [[VLC HowTo|general
help]].

== Finding what you Want to Know == :''More information:
[https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Searching Help:Searching (at
MediaWiki)]'' If you're looking for help about a specific feature, you
can [[Special:Search|search]] for it using the search box on the left of
every page.

Otherwise, a good place to start is the [[Main Page]], which lists all
the main parts of the site.

== What's a Wiki Site? == :''More information:
[https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki Wiki (at Wikipedia)]'' A wiki site is a
site which anyone can edit—in fact, we'd like to encourage you to edit
pages to make them even better! It works in a similar way to
[https://www.wikipedia.org/ Wikipedia].

== Adding to VideoLAN Wiki == VideoLAN Wiki requires that you use an
account when editing pages, but it's very easy to
[[Special:Userlogin|log in or register]].

When you've logged in you can edit most pages by clicking the Edit tab
on the top of the page. Some pages, <del>like this one,</del> don't
allow you to edit it. This is mainly because they are a target for spam.
If you want to edit them, you will need to ask an Admin
([{{fullurl:Special:Listusers|group=sysop}} list of admins]).

Adding to VideoLAN is easy—search for the page you want to add (to make
sure it doesn't exist), then click on the "this exact title" link in the
first paragraph.

== Wiki Formatting == :''More information:
[https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Help:Editing Help:Editing (at
WikiMedia)]'' When you're editing a page, adding plain text is simple,
as you can just type it in. However, if you want to add special
formatting&nbsp;– like making text bold&nbsp;– you can also do so.

There are also some [[Help:TemplatesMedia Player}}</nowiki> will add a
box on the right of the page linking to Wikipedia's page on Media
Player.

[[Category:VideoLAN Wiki|{{PAGENAME}}]]
