<!-- Beginning of the banner section --> {{Banner description=The
reference documentation and tips on VideoLAN's projects. <div
id="articlecount" style="font-size: 90%;">[[Special:Statisticslinks3= \*
[https://www.videolan.org/developers Developer Zone] \*
[https://wiki.multimedia.cx/ MultimediaWiki] \*
[https://trac.videolan.org Trac, Bugs, SVN and roadmap] }} <!-- End of
the banner section -->

The [[VideoLAN]] Knowledge Base's goal is to document [[codec]]s, [[file
format]]s, [[protocol]]s, etc. Although mainly consisting of technical
information, it is intended to be easily understandable by all users.
The Knowledge Base serves as a glossary on video/audio
streaming/playing, helping users understand the rest of this wiki. When
contributing to the user documentation please link to these definitions
as much as possible.

In addition, Mike Melanson and Diego Biurrun, from the FFmpeg project,
have started the [https://wiki.multimedia.cx/ MultimediaWiki] where you
can find tons of information about multimedia technology, particularly
codecs.

{\| style="width:50%;" class="center"\| \* '''[[Codec]]''' : Audio and
video formats, like DivX and AC2 \* '''[[File format]]''' : Different
file types, like .avi and .mpg \* '''[[Protocols]]''' : How data is sent
from one place to another \* '''[[:Category:GlossaryLinks]]''' : Related
web links

\* '''[[VideoLAN projectsA brief history of VideoLAN]]''' : About
VideoLAN \* '''[[Video Output]]''' : Different ways to display output \*
'''[[Interface]]s''' : Different ways to control VLC \* '''[[Buying
Media to Play with VLC]]''' : How to get [[DRM]]-free music. \*
'''[[Hardware Compatibility list]]''' : Hardware that works with
VLC/VLS. \|}

[[Category:Knowledge Base|*]]
