{{Example code|for=mosaic}} == Example set-up for a conference: Plans ==

=== Problem description ===

For a conference we needed a web stream for participants who were not
able to come. The set-up needed to be flexible as well transportable,
since the conference took place at two venues which were several hundred
meters apart. VLC was chosen because there was already a somehow working
set-up available which was modified for this conference.

=== Hardware ===

We were using a dual-core AMD box (Athlon X2 4600+) with 1 GB of memory
and only two PCI slots (Fujitsu Siemens PC). So nothing out of the
ordinary. We had two PolyCom remote controllable cameras which can
output SVIDEO signals which we feed into to BT878 based grabber cards.

=== Software ===

We used the vlc version coming with Ubuntu Gutsy 0.8.6c along with xawtv
for direct control of the cameras (the encoding process and buffering of
the clients usually introduce a lag of a few seconds which makes it hard
to steer the camera efficiently.

=== Network distribution ===

One of our problems was that at one of the conference venues the network
bandwidth was somehow limited and we feared to overload that network. We
thus decided to stream only to a single dedicated box which is connected
to a network with a much larger bandwidth. This box was restreaming the
content to anyone interested.

== Details ==

=== Needed devices ===

==== Video ==== Grabber cards registered their devices where the camera
output can be viewed from: /dev/video0 /dev/video1

The very first step is to check, if these are working. For this, start
   xawtv -c /dev/video0

and we saw a blue window, because xawtv sets the input mode to composite
not SVIDEO. To change this, right-click on the blue window, and change
the input to SVIDEO. I have not found a possibility to change this via
the command line.

If ''video0'' is working, try the same with ''video1'' it should work as
well.

==== Audio ====

The grabber cards I used, do have audio input but I only got very bad
quality. With the on-board audio I got a much better quality so this was
used. If you are a fan of a graphical interface try to record input from
''/dev/dsp'' (need the OSS kernel modules) with ''audacity''. Don't
simply connect the output of the sound card to loudspeakers and the
input of your microphone to the microphone input of your computer. The
sound card may directly connect those two channels without the software
having the possibility to record anything. If you find the input of the
grabber cards are good enough, they are usually labeled ''/dev/dsp0'' or
something like this.

=== Setup ===

For a simple set-up with two equally sized images next to each other I
use the following config file for vlc:

   # first camera uses /dev/video0 and the on-board sound /dev/audio or
   /dev/dsp new cam1 broadcast enabled setup cam1 input
   v4l:/dev/video0:norm=PAL:channel=1:adev=/dev/audio setup cam1 option
   rtsp-tcp setup cam1 output
   #transcode{vcodec=mp4v,vb=512,scale=1}:duplicate{dst=mosaic-bridge{id=1,height=400,width=300},
   select=video,dst={transcode{acodec=mp3,ab=64,channels=1}:bridge-out{id=0}},select=audio}

   # second camera. Important: adev=/dev/null otherwise I couldn't get
   it to run new cam2 broadcast enabled setup cam2 input
   v4l:/dev/video1:norm=PAL:channel=1:adev=/dev/null setup cam2 output
   #transcode{vcodec=mp4v,vb=512,scale=1}:duplicate{dst=mosaic-bridge{id=2,height=400,width=300}}

   # set up for the background new background broadcast enabled setup
   background input fake: setup background option mosaic-width=800 setup
   background option mosaic-height=300 setup background option
   mosaic-rows=1 setup background option mosaic-cols=2 setup background
   option mosaic-position=1 setup background option mosaic-order="1,2"
   setup background option fake-file="back.gif" setup background option
   fake-width=800 setup background option fake-height=300 setup
   background option fake-fps="8" setup background output
   #transcode{sfilter=mosaic,soverlay,vcodec=mp4v,acodec=mp3,ab=64,channels=1,scale=1}:bridge-in{id-offset=100}:std{access=http{mime=video/x-asf-stream},mux=asf,dst=/}

   # put it all together control background play control cam1 play
   control cam2 play

For us it was not so important to have both images the same. The first
camera just showed the audience while the second one looked at the
projections made which needed to be of higher quality. We used therefore
a special background image with a logo in the bottom left corner and
this configuration:

   new cam1 broadcast enabled setup cam1 input
   v4l:/dev/video0:norm=PAL:channel=1:adev=/dev/audio setup cam1 option
   rtsp-tcp setup cam1 output
   #transcode{vcodec=mp4v,vb=384,scale=1}:duplicate{dst=mosaic-bridge{id=1,height=300,width=400},select=video,dst={transcode{acodec=mp3,ab=64,channels=1}:bridge-out{id=0}},select=audio}

   new cam2 broadcast enabled setup cam2 input
   v4l:/dev/video1:norm=PAL:channel=1:adev=/dev/null setup cam2 output
   #transcode{vcodec=mp4v,vb=1500,scale=1}:duplicate{dst=mosaic-bridge{id=2,height=600,width=800},select=video}

   new background broadcast enabled setup background input fake: setup
   background option mosaic-width=1200 setup background option
   mosaic-height=600 setup background option mosaic-rows=2 setup
   background option mosaic-cols=3 setup background option
   mosaic-position=1 setup background option mosaic-order="1,2,0,0,0,0"
   setup background option fake-file="aei3.gif" setup background option
   fake-width=1200 setup background option fake-height=600 setup
   background option fake-fps="8" setup background option
   mosaic-keep-picture=1 setup background option
   mosaic-keep-aspect-ratio=1 setup background output
   #transcode{sfilter=mosaic,soverlay,vcodec=mp4v,vb=2000,acodec=mp3,ab=64,channels=1,scale=1}:bridge-in{id-offset=100}:std{access=http{mime=video/x-asf-stream},mux=asf,dst=/}

   control background play control cam1 play control cam2 play

Either of these set-ups will start a streaming server listening on port
8080 for incoming http connections.

Out next problem was, how shall we prevent our small internet connection
from the conference venue from being saturated?

=== Internet setup ===

We used a very simple but effective way. For this we not only needed our
streaming server (from now on named '''origin'''), but also another
server on a much faster network (named '''broadcast'''). We started the
server on '''origin''' with

   vlc -vvv --color -I telnet --vlm-conf conference.conf --ttl 10
   --upd-caching 2000

Then we start a ssh tunnel from '''origin''' to '''broadcast''' (best
placed into a screen environment):

   ssh -N -c blowfish -R8000:localhost:8080 account@broadcast

This will forward the local port 8080 (on '''origin''') to port 8000 on
'''broadcast'''.

Finally, we start another vlc instance on '''broadcast''' to restream
the original stream:

   vlc -vvv http://localhost:8000/ --udp-caching 1500 --sout
   '#standard{access=http{mime=video/x-ms-asf},mux=asf,dst=/}'
   --http-port=7070

=== Final tips ===

==== Port multiplication ==== If you need to "multiply" a port easily,
you can use iptables on Linux:

   #possibly not all of these modules are strictly needed: modprobe
   xt_tcpup modprobe ip_tables modprobe iptable_filter modprobe
   ip_conntraqck modprobe iptable_nat modprobe ipt_state modprobe
   ipt_MASQUERADE modprobe ipt_REDIRECT

   echo "1" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward

   # I'm flushing everything here, this may not be good for you iptables
   -F iptables -F -t nat iptables -A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT iptables -t
   nat -A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 8080 -j REDIRECT --to-ports
   7070

This will forward all requests to port 8080 transparently to port 7070
(where our broadcast server listens). Note: Port 8080 might be better
because some firewalls allow only http related ports out and 8080 is a
typical proxy port.

== Credits ==

Thanks a lot for the folks on #videolan, especially ILEoo for helping me
a lot when need was great! Without your help I don't think I would have
finished this set-up in time!
