{{Historical|Use [[Python bindings]]}} == Python binding documentation
== '''NOTE: this version of python bindings (compiled C-module) is
deprecated in favor of the new [[PythonBinding]].'''

The old version of python bindings, which can be found in
<code>bindings/python</code>, is a python C-based module. Sources are
browsable from [http://trac.videolan.org/vlc/browser/bindings/python
python binding] and a code sample can be found in the sources (file
[http://trac.videolan.org/vlc/browser/bindings/python/vlcwidget.py
vlcwidget.py]).

It has been compiled, and is being used, on Linux, Windows and Mac OS X.

== Compile HOWTO ==

Only for < 0.9.0 versions: If you want to include the python bindings in
your build, you must pass --enable-python-bindings (svn version) or
--enable-mediacontrol-python-bindings (0.8.6\* versions) to ./configure
as it is disabled by default.

For >= 0.9.0 versions, python bindings cannot be compiled at the same
time as the main VLC tree. They can (and event must) be compiled from a
compiled VLC, provided that appropriate headers and libraries
(libvlc.so/.dll) are available.

=== Linux/Debian ===

On Debian: \* install the libvlc2-dev package \* Get the python bindings
sources from the Git repository : \* in the python directory, launch
python setup.py build The module will be built in
build/lib.linux-i686-2.5 \* install the module through (as root) python
setup.py install or simply copy the vlc.so file to some appropriate
directory.

=== Windows ===

-  Get and install a nighty-built package from
   http://nightlies.videolan.org/build/windows/
-  Get and extract the corresponding sources from
   http://nightlies.videolan.org/build/source/
-  Create a .libs subdirectory in vlc/src
-  Copy the libvlc.dll file from c:Program FilesVideoLANVLC into
   src/.libs

\* Go into the vlc/bindings/python directory and run
   python setup.py build --compiler=mingw32

You should get a vlc.pyd (or vlc.dll) file in the build/ subdirectory.

== Basics ==

The vlc python module provides 4 main classes : MediaControl, Instance,
MediaPlayer and Media.

'''vlc.MediaControl''' implements the [[MediaControlAPI]]. Methods
taking positions as parameters expect a '''vlc.Position''' object, that
provides a very flexible way to address absolute or relative positions,
in a number of units (milliseconds, frames or bytes). For convenience,
the python binding automatically converts integer positions into
milliseconds '''vlc.Position''' objects.

'''vlc.Instance''', '''vlc.MediaPlayer''' and '''vlc.Media''' match the
new [[LibVLC]] API. Refer (for now) to the docstrings provided by the
python objects to get their usage.

== Tips and tricks ==

=== Building notes ===

-  on 0.8.6(a), the --enable-mediacontrol-python-bindings option is not
   compatible with --enable-libtool. If you need libtool support, please
   use the svn version.

=== Python specificities ===

The python bindings provide a binding for the [[MediaControlAPI]], with
some variations :

-  the methods taking a ''vlc.Position'' parameter also accept an
   integer, which will then be converted to a relative position in
   milliseconds (vlc.MediaTime)
-  the start, stop, pause and resume method position parameter is
   optional. If omitted, it will default to a 0-relative position.
-  RGBPicture (returned by snapshot) and StreamInformation (returned by
   get_stream_information) are not objects with attributes, but instead
   dictionaries.

=== Snapshot support ===

In the current svn revision, we use the core snapshot functionality of
vlc, which is simpler to setup (no additional module, see below) and
directly returns PNG, but less precise.

Prior to revision 13881, in order to get snapshot support, you had to
activate the snapshot vout module through a clone video filter. The
following code gives a way to achieve this :

   mc=vlc.MediaControl("--vout-filter clone --clone-vout-list
   default,snapshot --snapshot-width 320 --snapshot-height 200".split())

Advantages of the old (filter-based) approach: \* the snapshot vout
module holds a cache of reduced-size snapshots, that allow to take into
account the reaction time of the user (around 200ms) and also to
precisely select the more appropriate snapshot from the cache.

=== Win32 initialization ===

If the vlc module was not compiled with the exact same prefix as the VLC
installation (e.g. c:\Program Files\Videolan), then it cannot find
itself the installation directory (stored in the registry
SoftwareVideoLANVLCInstallDir), and the MediaControl instanciation will
fail with a message like "Cannot find interface plugins".

The workaround consists in changing directory to the VLC installation
directory before instanciating the MediaControl object, since VLC will
look for its plugins in the current directory. Another way is to pass
the correct --plugin-path option. <syntaxhighlight lang="python"> def
get_registry_value (self, subkey, name): import \_winreg value = None
for hkey in \_winreg.HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE, \_winreg.HKEY_CURRENT_USER:
try: reg = \_winreg.OpenKey(hkey, subkey) value, type_id =
\_winreg.QueryValueEx(reg, name) \_winreg.CloseKey(reg) except
\_winreg.error: pass return value

   vlcpath=get_registry_value('Software\VideoLAN\VLC','InstallDir') if
   vlcpath is None: print "Cannot locate VLC installation directory"
   else: os.chdir(vlcpath) mc=vlc.MediaControl()

</syntaxhighlight>

== Source code == Formerly located at bindings/python/

[[Category:Bindings]]
