{{Back to|QtIntfMockups}} ==Small size== \* eject button ''open dialog''
:http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/eject_white.png or
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/eject_dark.png (smaller:
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/eject_smaller.png) \* update
button ''extended dialog''
:http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/update.png
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/update2.png \* down arrow
''open dialog''
:http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/arrow_down_light.png
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/arrow_down_dark.png
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/arrow_down_blue.png
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/arrow_down_green.png
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/arrow_down_red.png
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/arrow_down_orange.png
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/arrow_down_yellow.png \*
fullscreen button ''main interface''
:http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/fullscreen.png
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/fullscreen_apple.png
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/fullscreen_3.png \* playlist
button ''main interface''
:http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/playlist.png (smaller:
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/playlist_even_smaller.png) or
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/playlist_light.png \* extended
button ''main interface''
:http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/extended_light.png or
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/extended_dark.png or
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/extended2_light.png \* A to B
''main interface''
:http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/atob_old.png or
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/atob.png or
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/atob2.png \* snapshot ''main
interface'' :http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/snapshot.png \*
clear ''playlist search''
:http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/pl_search_clear.png \* down
arrow ''playlist'' :see down arrow ''open dialog'' \* DVD next ''main
interface'' :http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/dvd_next.png \*
DVD previous ''main interface''
:http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/dvd_prev.png \* DVD menu
''main interface''
:http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/dvd_menu.png or
http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qtimageset/dvd_menu2.png

==Bigger size== Main interface buttons !

Normal state :http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qt4_intf/preview_080419.png

Hovered or clicked or focused
:http://d-gfx.kognetwork.ch/VLC/qt4_intf/preview_080419_hovered.png

[[Category:Dev Discussions]]
