{{SoCProjectstudent=[[User:jetrumentor=[[User:J-Peg|Jean-Philippe
Andre]]}}

==Project Abstract== The project is about extending the Media
Library(ML) for VLC Player. The media library will allow users to manage
all their local and network media. The project will use the basic
structure that already exists for the ML and will focus on extending the
features. New features include Search, Smart playlists, Annotations and
"Just play music".

==Goals== \* Basic: Add media files/folders to the library. \* Live
Folders: This will automatically scan folders for media additions. They
will be automatically added to the ML. This feature already exists and
requires some finetuning. \* Search: Audio, Video, Streams and their
metadata can be searched. Also, there is an advanced search that can
allow searches on specific fields in the metadata. \* Smart Playlists: A
Smart playlist can be created from an "Advanced Search". Here you can
specify some search and the result of this search can be stored in the
playlist. The Smartness is that this type of playlist changes
dynamically as the ML changes. Example: all audio between year 1970 and
1980 with rating > 4. \* Bookmarks and Annotations: \* Auto metadata
fill: This will automatically fetch meta data information from external
sources such as IMDB, Rotten Romatoes, AzLyrics(for lyrics),
MusicBrainz, etc \* Save file specific settings: VLC will remember if
you played that screwed up video using some video filter/subtitle, etc.
Next time the same media is opened, the settings are loaded from the ML.
Ofcourse, there is a line to draw. This won't be very useful for volume,
for example. No point setting low volume, if your sleeping roomate has
to wake up everytime the track changes. \* Podcasts and Services
Discovery Integration: This will move all the services discovery
features in VLC into the ML and complete the unified portal to accessing
media! Notifications for these features will be improved. \* "Just Play
Music" Feature. Use information about what the user has been playing and
likes(based on ratings) and find music that the user likes the best from
his ML and play randomly.

==Todo List== {\| class="wikitable" ! What !! When !! Status Learn qt,
git, bit of auto*. \|\| Done Off on a small vacation|\| yo! QT Model
Enhancement|\| Not started Just Play \|\| Not started Improve Live
folders|\| Not started Search|\| Not started Smart Playlists|\| Not
started }

==Updates from me==

My repo is at http://git.videolan.org/?p=vlc-jetru.git All ML work is
done in branch "mlwork". --[[User:Jetru|Jetru]] 05:18, 2 June 2009 (UTC)

Some changes in plans and lots of stuff to be decided and pipelined yet.
Timelines are completely prospective. --[[User:Jetru|Jetru]] 07:32, 16
May 2009 (CEST)

Writing minor patches to the existing ML. This should help me understand
some stuff better. --[[User:Jetru|Jetru]] 07:24, 7 May 2009 (CEST)

Back. Continuing studying stuff for vlc --[[User:Jetru|Jetru]] 23:24, 29
April 2009 (CEST)

Traveling to the US. I'll be back online on Tuesday!
--[[User:Jetru|Jetru]] 08:34, 26 April 2009 (CEST)
