[[x264]] has loads of possibilities for [[SoC 2009]] projects. Those
listed here are merely suggestions; other ideas are always possible if
they fit the time and difficulty constraints of SoC.

This is part of the VideoLAN candidature for Google Summer of Code 2009.

*Mentor (and author of this page): Jason Garrett-Glaser (Dark
Shikari)*\ Possible backup mentor: Holger Lubitz

==Introduction to x264== x264 is probably the most efficient,
compression-wise, open source video encoder there is. It is quite
competitive with commercial encoders, outclassing a large number of
them.

While not actually part of VLC or ffmpeg (it has its own codebase), it
is a major library used by both, licensed under the GPL, in addition to
being a standalone encoder. As the only major open-source H.264 encoder,
x264 has a near-complete monopoly on H.264 encoding in the consumer
world, along with being used by many major corporations, including
Youtube and Facebook. Some companies, such as Avail Media, have in the
past offered bounties on improvements to the encoder.

An overview of x264's algorithm can be found
[http://akuvian.org/src/x264/overview_x264_v8_5.pdf here]. ==Skills
needed== These are required for all listed projects and probably
anything not listed, too. *Basic C programming.*\ Basic understanding of
video encoding, or at least willingness to do the appropriate reading up
on the topic before the summer begins. *Confidence in the ability to
learn the basics of following and similar topics (though not all
projects will require such information): :*\ Discrete cosine transform
and similar frequency transforms :*Motion estimation and compensation
:*\ Quantization and entropy encoding A PDF with a chapter that can
serve as a primer to video compression can be found
[http://www.mediafire.com/download.php?auxd23m2snw here] (new version
[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2701213/pdfs/0470516925Video.pdf here]). It
also has some more specific chapters on MPEG-4 Part 2 and Part 10.

==Projects== We are probably only accepting one or two students this
year. Thus, you will have to prove that you are absolutely able to do
your project over the summer--see the qualification tasks.

===Optimization (x86)=== x264 prides itself on being one of the most
optimized programs in existence while still being reasonably readable
and maintainable. This project is about furthering that goal: make it
even faster without sacrificing code quality.

This is probably the hardest task, as x264 is already so absurdly
optimized that going significantly further is going to be very
difficult. As such, the qualification task for this project (see below)
requires you to prove that you can get at least somewhere. The goal here
is at least a 5-10% performance increase in x264 on x86 (and ideally,
other CPUs too, but processor-specific optimizations are allowed here).
Some unconventional ideas in addition to the obvious tasks of writing
loads of assembly and finding cases where the C code can be further
optimized:

*Cache profiling: try to minimize cache misses.*\ Code size profiling:
find the inherent "value" in clock cycles of a line of cache and use
this to try to optimize the code size of existing assembly. \*Aliasing
optimizations: find places where aliasing is hurting the compiler's
ability to optimize.

Not recommended for anyone other than hardcore assembly gurus.

===ARM Support=== x264 currently focuses on x86--and to a lesser
extent--PowerPC. ARM is becoming more and more important every year--yet
currently x264 cannot even run on some ARMs, and there's no configure
support. Let alone the fact that there's no ARM assembly. This task
would be to set up ARM support in configure, fix all unaligned accesses
in the C code (there's probably only one), and then writing ARM assembly
for all major DSP functions. There are already some similar ARM
functions in ffmpeg for H.264 decoding which could be useful to you in
this task. The goal here is to make x264 at least 4-5 times faster on
ARM by implementing all the major assembly functions on ARM.

Also not recommended for anyone other than hardcore assembly gurus.

===4:4:4 and 4:2:2 Colorspaces=== x264 currently only supports the 4:2:0
colorspace, also known as YV12. However, many profession applications
require higher precision in the form of 4:2:2 or 4:4:4 chroma
subsampling. Furthermore, such sampling is useful for many artificial
video sources, like video game captures and presentations, where sharp
chroma edges are blurred by the 4:2:0 sampling. This is a large project
that, unlike the previous two, probably does not involve modifying any
assembly if you don't want to. In cases where things would be easier if
the assembly ''was'' modified, the other developers will probably be
willing to do it for you if you aren't an assembly guru.

The project mostly covers changing every place in the code where YV12
was assumed--and making it variable. It also involves handling the
potential new syntax elements and adding a new Hadamard transform for
the new chroma DC channels. It also may involve modifying x264_scan8,
which could be a rather obnoxious task given how many parts of x264
assume certain properties of it.

This project will involve a lot of coding and a lot of debugging, but
none of it should be particularly complex.

===GPU Motion Estimation=== In practice, this probably means CUDA, as
OpenCL is not supported by anything yet.

While porting x264 entirely to CUDA is an insane task, putting a
lookahead motion estimation on the GPU could be useful both for quality
and performance. Tricky catches here include:

*The motion estimation method has to support x264's threading model. The
easiest way to do this might be, as suggested, to make it into a
lookahead function that is run on entire frames before the main encoding
begins.*\ The algorithm has to be able to make some sorts of basic mode
decisions well enough to to be comparable with x264's basic SATD mode
decision. This means you will have to implement the hpel and qpel
interpolation algorithms, along with the SATD (Sum of Hadamard
Transformed Differences) comparison method. \*Interlaced mode.

The general algorithm that has been agreed on after a great deal of
discussion is the hierarchical search method. More description of this
method is in the Qualification Tasks section.

This project is not recommended unless you have a very significant
amount of experience with CUDA.

===Weighted P-frame Prediction=== Of the projects listed, this is the
only one with the potential to significantly improve encoding quality.
Weighted P-frame prediction lets you assign weights to the frames in a
reference list for the current frame, values to multiply all the pixels
by. This is incredibly useful in dealing with fades, camera flashes,
etc. However, it would require both a good enough algorithm to find
optimal weighting factors and an efficient enough algorithm to be useful
in practice.

A [http://akuvian.org/src/x264/x264_wpredp.0.diff patch] already exists
for this--but it is so old (from the early days of x264) that it is
practically useless except as a guide to how to start implementing it
now.

Note that the challenge here is twofold: add support for weighted
P-frame prediction and make an algorithm good enough and fast enough to
make the feature useful.

==Qualification tasks== This year, the qualification tasks will
represent the start of your summer project. We're willing to give all
the technical help you need, but of course we won't write the code for
you. "Passing" a qualification task is at the mentor's discretion. Note
these are designed to be '''difficult''' and help lead you into your
main project. If you can't do the qualification task for the project,
you surely cannot do the project either!

Again, to reiterate, we will guide you through as much of the codebase
as you need to do your work. '''This page is not supposed to give you
all the information you need to do these tasks: you are expected to
contact us for more information.''' Feel free to ask tons of questions.
On #x264dev IRC channel on Freenode, of course.

===Optimization (x86)=== If you're interested in the optimization task,
the qualification task is to speed up x264 on x86 (32 or 64-bit) by 1-2%
on "normal settings" without changing the output. This is '''much'''
harder than it sounds.

===ARM Support=== If you're interested in the ARM task, your
qualification task will be to:

-  Fix the unaligned access bug in the bitstream writer.
-  Write NEON SIMD assembly for at least a few of the simpler
   significant DSP functions (SAD, SATD, etc).

===4:4:4 and 4:2:2 Colorspaces=== If you're interested in working on
this project, your task is to produce an x264-encoded bitstream in 4:4:4
or 4:2:2 format. It does not actually have to be remotely viewable (that
is, you don't have to implement any of the code to handle motion
compensation, deblocking, or anything else involving 4:4:4/4:2:2 chroma
data), but the bitstream has to be written correctly (correct syntax
elements). The patch you write for this will be the starting point for
your main project.

===GPU Motion Estimation=== Your task for this project will be to write
a C version of your final algorithm. It doesn't need to deal with any of
the corner cases; all it has to do is run before the main encoding loop,
deciding the motion vectors for the frame. It doesn't even have to work
with threading. It doesn't have to support sub-16x16 partitions either.
The hierarchical search works via the following algorithm.

-  Set N equal to 2^M, where M is an integer. A common M is 4.

\* WHILE N is greater than 1: :\* Downscale the image (from the
original) by a factor of N. :\* Do an ordinary diamond motion search on
the image with block size 16x16. Assume the predicted motion vector to
be equal to the median of the top, left, and top right motion vectors
(as per H.264 MV prediction)... but use the motion vectors from the
previous iteration, not the current for these (this is what allows you
to parallelize things with CUDA). :\* For each block after searching,
split the motion vectors of that block into 4 separate (but equal)
motion vectors. These will be used as the starting point for the
searches in the next iteration. Each iteration progressively refines the
result at a progressively lesser downscale. :\* N = N/2 \* Do a final
refine at no downscale at all.

===Weighted P-frame Prediction=== The task for this project is to add
support for Weighted P-frame Prediction--but not to write any sort of
handling of it from an algorithmic standpoint, so no algorithm to decide
the weights. That is, all the weights are just set to some constant
value until we come up with a better way to do things. As with the other
tasks, you can make many simplifications here to avoid corner cases,
such as ignoring multithreading. Another simplification you can make is
to only allow a weight on the first reference frame, or even have the
program be completely ignorant of the weighted version of the frame
until the final encode. All that matters is you get the basic framework
working.

==Contact info== If you are interested, drop by #x264dev or #x264 on
Freenode.

You should also contact the admin [[User:J-b|jb]].

{{GSoC}}

[[Category:SoC]] [[Category:x264]]
