==Introduction to x264 and Summer of Code== [[x264]] is one of the most
popular video compression libraries in the world, used worldwide for
applications such as web video, television broadcast, and Blu-ray
authoring. It outclasses practically all commercial implementations both
speed and compression-wise. While not actually part of VLC or ffmpeg, it
is a major library used by both, licensed under the GPL. Due to its
popularity in the commercial world (for example, Youtube and Facebook
rely on it), many companies have offered bounties in the past for
features and improvements that they found useful.

But don't let that all scare you. There's still plenty of projects that
a student can effectively get involved in -- we've had tons of
successful students, both in Google Summer of Code and Google Code-In,
most of whom knew nothing about video compression before applying.

x264 is part of the VideoLAN candidature for Google Summer of Code 2011.

*Lead mentor (and author of this page): Jason Garrett-Glaser (Dark
Shikari)*\ Possible other mentors: Ronald Bultje (BBB)?, Kieran Kunhya
(kierank)

An overview of x264's structure and algorithms can be found
[http://akuvian.org/src/x264/overview_x264_v8_5.pdf here]. It is
somewhat outdated, but still mostly accurate. Do note that understanding
this is not necessary for all projects.

On a lighter note, feel free to check out the
[http://www.x264.nl/developers/Dark_Shikari/loren.html x264 developer
quotes page].

==Guide to getting involved== *Hop on IRC--whenever! We have a friendly
community that's happy to help and to talk about pretty much whatever.
#x264 is the general discussion/user help channel and #x264dev is the
development-only channel (Freenode server). If you've never used IRC,
grab Chatzilla. There is no such thing as a stupid question--only stupid
people--so don't worry about sounding dumb. Just get involved!*\ Ask
questions--I cannot stress this enough. We've had students who couldn't
get anywhere because they were stuck--but didn't ask questions! There's
no shame in asking questions; that's how everyone here got involved.
*'''Stay on IRC'''. Even if you have nothing to say, being around lets
you get to know the community, get a feel for what's going on, and even
sometimes help out by pointing the semicolon I left at the end of my if
statement. This applies during the project period too: we expect all
students to '''always be on IRC'''. This doesn't mean you have to be
actually active all the time, but whenever you're free, you should be at
least pingable on IRC, and whenever you're working on Summer of Code,
you should be active on IRC.The best option for staying online is to get
a remote shell account of some sort and leave an IRSSI client on 24/7 in
a screen. This lets you easily come back in the morning and see if you
missed anything important. checkers can provide you with a shell if you
end up being accepted as a student.*\ Even if you don't get a slot as a
student, or you don't qualify for Summer of Code, we will happily
provide you with the exact same support that we would give a student: it
is quite reasonable and not at all uncommon for us to have projects of
similar scale to Summer of Code be done by students who are not part of
the Summer of Code program.

==Skills needed== These are required for all listed projects and
probably anything not listed, too. *Basic C programming.*\ Basic
understanding of video encoding, or at least willingness to do the
appropriate reading up on the topic before the summer begins. Most
people who get involved don't know much to start with; we don't expect
you to! *To work on anything related directly to the encoder core (not
all projects), you'll need to do some significant background reading on
relevant topics.*\ \*A PDF with a chapter that can serve as a primer to
video compression can be found
[http://www.mediafire.com/download.php?auxd23m2snw here]. It also has
some more specific chapters on MPEG-4 Part 10 (H.264).

==Projects== We are probably only accepting 3-4 students this year.
Thus, you will have to prove that you are absolutely able to do your
project over the summer--see the qualification tasks. Do remember that
the project ideas listed here are merely suggestions; other ideas are
always possible if they fit the time and difficulty constraints of SoC.
For example, if you have an idea to improve compression (e.g.
implementing a new algorithm) that you think we can benefit from, feel
free to bring it up.

===Optimization (ARM)=== x264 prides itself on being one of the most
optimized programs in existence while still being reasonably readable
and maintainable. This project is about furthering that goal: make it
even faster without sacrificing code quality.

x264's ARM NEON assembly code is well behind its x86 assembly and is
missing many optimizations. This project would involve finishing up the
ARM assembly (originally done as part of Summer of Code 2009), giving us
a much-needed performance boost on ARM.

NEON knowledge is highly recommended but not required -- but you will
have to learn somehow or another. We have a few NEON experts in the
community who can help, but none are available for full-time mentoring,
so keep this in mind when picking this project.

===4:4:4 and 4:2:2 colorspaces=== x264 currently only supports the 4:2:0
colorspace, also known as YV12. However, many profession applications
require higher precision in the form of 4:2:2 or 4:4:4 chroma
subsampling. Furthermore, such sampling is useful for many artificial
video sources, like video game captures and presentations, where sharp
chroma edges are blurred by the 4:2:0 sampling. This is a large project
that, unlike the previous, probably does not involve modifying any
assembly if you don't want to. In cases where things would be easier if
the assembly ''was'' modified, the other developers will be willing to
do it for you if you aren't an assembly guru.

The project mostly covers changing every place in the code where YV12
was assumed--and making it variable. It also involves handling the
potential new syntax elements and adding a new Hadamard transform for
the new chroma DC channels. It also may involve modifying x264_scan8,
which could be a rather obnoxious task given how many parts of x264
assume certain properties of it.

This project will involve a lot of coding and a lot of debugging, but
none of it should be particularly complex.

===GPU motion estimation=== While porting x264 entirely to CUDA or
OpenCL is an insane task, there are three possible methods that could be
used to offload some work to the GPU:

*High-complexity motion search designed to get useful predictors to be
used by the main motion search.*\ Massively parallelized lookahead
motion search, designed to do a lot of the work normally done in the
lookahead thread. May also improve B-frame decision and other parts of
the lookahead. \*Motion search designed to completely replace x264's
main motion search: would require a lot of threading trickery to sync it
perfectly with the main encoder threads.

The general algorithm that has been agreed on after a great deal of
discussion is the hierarchical search method. If you have a better idea,
feel free to propose it, of course. More description of this method is
in the Qualification Tasks section.

This project is not recommended unless you have a very significant
amount of experience with CUDA or OpenCL.

===Non-local RD optimization=== x264's biggest weakness is that it only
considers the optimal decisions for the current macroblock; it isn't
aware of the effects of its decision on the future. There may be
significant benefits to be gained via non-local methods, such as
iterative optimization. However, especially in H.264, non-local RD is
very difficult to do efficiently. This is a project primarily targeted
at someone already familiar with video compression: in particular, it
*requires* that you have at least some idea with regards to how you
would do it! Your idea must not only improve compression, but also do so
in some sane amount of time (a 2x speed cost might be tolerable, 400x
most certainly not).

This is probably not very difficult from a coding standpoint and is
really more of an algorithmic problem. Since we haven't done it already,
that of course means it's a ''hard'' algorithmic problem.

===[[SoC 2011/Stereo high profile mvc encoding|H.264/MVC]]=== This
project would be to implement the multiview coding extension (read: 3D
video) of H.264. This would mostly be a high-level project: affecting
headers, reference handling, and so forth, as opposed to low level
compression steps. This would let x264 be used to author 3D Blu-rays and
encode 3D content more efficiently. (kierank can get Blu-ray 3D streams
verified)

This project would involve reading a lot of spec and implementing it in
the cleanest way possible. It is probably not inordinately difficult.

==Qualification tasks== Unlike many other projects, such as ffmpeg,
x264's policy for qualification tasks is to use tasks that are directly
useful to ''you'' for your summer project. That is, the projects
directly lead you into the start of your project and create a base for
you to work off for the rest of the summer. This is, in our opinion,
much better than making you work on something completely unrelated.
We're willing to give all the technical help you need, but of course we
won't write the code for you. "Passing" a qualification task is at the
mentor's discretion. Note these are designed to be '''relatively
difficult''' and help lead you into your main project. If you can't do
the qualification task for the project, you surely cannot do the project
either!

Again, to reiterate, we will guide you through as much of the codebase
as you need to do your work. '''This page is not supposed to give you
all the information you need to do these tasks: you are expected to
contact us for more information.''' Feel free to ask tons of questions.
On #x264dev IRC channel on Freenode, of course.

None of these tasks are supposed to take more than a few days to a week
of work. '''If you successfully complete one, we will almost surely
accept you as a student.'''

===Optimization (ARM)=== If you're interested in the optimization task,
the qualification task is to speed up x264 on ARM by at least 2% by
writing new NEON functions.

===4:4:4 and 4:2:2 Colorspaces=== If you're interested in working on
this project, your task is to produce an x264-encoded bitstream in 4:4:4
or 4:2:2 format. It does not actually have to be at all watchable (that
is, you don't have to implement any of the code to handle motion
compensation, deblocking, or anything else involving 4:4:4/4:2:2 chroma
data), but the bitstream has to be written correctly (correct syntax
elements). The patch you write for this will be the starting point for
your main project.

A partially done qualification task for reference can be found here:
https://github.com/Andreas-HH/x264-colorspaces

===GPU Motion Estimation=== Your task for this project will be to write
a C version of your final algorithm. It doesn't need to deal with any of
the corner cases; all it has to do is run before the main encoding loop,
deciding the motion vectors for the frame. It doesn't even have to work
with threading. It doesn't have to support sub-16x16 partitions either.
Assuming you didn't propose another, the hierarchical search works via
the following algorithm:

-  Set N equal to 2^M, where M is an integer. A common M is 4.

\* WHILE N is greater than 1: :\* Downscale the image (from the
original) by a factor of N. :\* Do an ordinary diamond motion search on
the image with block size 16x16. Assume the predicted motion vector to
be equal to the median of the top, left, and top right motion vectors
(as per H.264 MV prediction)... but use the motion vectors from the
previous iteration, not the current for these (this is what allows you
to parallelize things with CUDA). :\* For each block after searching,
split the motion vectors of that block into 4 separate (but equal)
motion vectors. These will be used as the starting point for the
searches in the next iteration. Each iteration progressively refines the
result at a progressively lesser downscale. :\* N = N/2 \* Do a final
refine at no downscale at all.

===Non-local RD optimization=== Implement an extremely minimal prototype
of some part of your idea. It can be ugly, hacky, and limited; all that
matters is you demonstrate that you can take an idea and turn it into
code in x264. Bonus points if the idea actually works.

===H.264/MVC=== Read the spec and write an outline of what changes
you'll have to make to x264 (specifically, with x264 in mind) in order
to implement MVC. In other words, a design document. It doesn't have to
be very formal, but it needs to clearly demonstrate that you have put
some amount of thought into this.

==Contact info== If you are interested, drop by #x264dev or #x264 on
Freenode and ping Dark Shikari.

You should also contact the admin [[User:J-b|jb]].

{{GSoC}}

[[Category:SoC]] [[Category:x264]]
