**SoC 2013 ideas. This is an ideas page only.**

This wiki page covers the work of the `VideoLAN <VideoLAN>`__ project as a mentoring organization for `Google Summer of Code <http://code.google.com/soc/>`__, in order to improve .

Introduction & Information
--------------------------

This wiki page covers the attempt by the `VideoLAN <VideoLAN>`__ project to act as a mentoring organization for `Google Summer of Code <http://code.google.com/soc/>`__, in order to improve .

`VideoLAN <VideoLAN>`__ was a mentoring organization in `2007 <SoC_2007>`__, `2008 <SoC_2008>`__, `2009 <SoC_2009>`__, `2010 <SoC_2010>`__ and `2011 <SoC_2011>`__.

This page list the ideas for VLC.

VLC media player
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: mediawiki

   {{VLC}}

is a cross-platform multimedia player, encoder and streamer application. It is one of the most successful open-source projects without any professional structure underneath.

.. raw:: mediawiki

   {{VLC}}

is downloaded at an approximate monthly rate of 40 millions from the main website and that's not including third-party distributions (Linux)!

You can find more information on `VLC on Wikipedia <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VLC_media_player>`__ or on this `wiki <Main_Page>`__.

Summer of Code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If selected and developed, SoC projects for VLC will be included in later releases.

All projects are covered by the GPL (v2+) or LGPL (v2.1+) licenses depending on the module.

VLC Ideas categories
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**'' You should really read this**''

This page is split in three lists of ideas:

#. The *main ideas* are what seem to be *key projects* for VLC and should be more *thrilling* than the other ones; we have assigned a potential mentor to each of these.
#. The other ideas are less detailed but could be good ideas too.
#. `Mini Projects <Mini_Projects>`__ are short-span projects which can be given as Qualification tasks or extended to be Full Summer of Code project.

**Original good ideas will be valued**. For the last years, half of the ideas were given by students. We don't want to impose anything. This is Free and Open Source software.

If you don't want to apply for SoC but want other ideas to develop on, check the `Mini Projects <Mini_Projects>`__ page!

And on the IRC channel, you can have even more ideas.

Key ideas for VLC
-----------------

3D video playback
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While VLC 2.1 will add an anaglyph video filter which transforms side by side 3D video streams in anaglyph glasses (aka red/blue) compatible images, we need full 3D playback support. To achieve this, VLC's video decoding and rendering pipeline needs to be expanded. Within this project, the major goal is to achieve a working prototype on any of the supported platforms and merge-able patches against VLC's core modules.

Requires a basic understanding of video decoding and good C or C++ experience.

*Proposed mentor: Laurent?*

CC EIA-708 Closed Caption support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Following up with the recent developments in the US, we need full support for `CEA-708 <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CEA-708>`__.

We will extend our `support for EIA-608 in VLC 2.1 <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1WhMEWIb2S4>`__, so a base is laid, which needs to be expanded and improved.

Requires good C experience.

*Proposed mentor:*\ `jb <User:J-b>`__

Timed Text TTML support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Based on the W3C specification, we need support for `Timed Text Markup Language <http://www.w3.org/TR/ttaf1-dfxp/>`__ to display widely formatted text in time with video or / and audio. If time allows, this project should be expanded to add support for SMPTE-TT's additional elements.

Requires good C experience and a feeling for web technologies.

*Proposed mentor:*\ `jb <User:J-b>`__

Digital Cinema DCP playback
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Digital Cinema Packages(DCP) is the format chosen for playback movies in cinemas. The goal is to implement handling of DCP in VLC, this will be used to review and playback of movies. This work will be part of a research topic dedicated to propose a FOSS framework for independent/art-house theaters.

The DCP (size usually from 60 to 200 Gb) use MXF containers : A MXF File for video encoded in JPEG2000 intra frame only in

-  2K or 4K image size with a framerate of at least 24 fps
-  MXF Files for audio in WAV. One MXF file per audio languages.
-  MXF Files for subtitles in XML or PNG. One MXF file per audio languages

The DCP is a directory with those MXF files and others XML files for meta-data.

A VLC module shall be written to handle DCP. The MXF containers is already implemented via libavformat. The JPEG2000 codec is handled by libavcodec. The module to write will be an access_demux one who reads the DCP directory as input and video, audio, and subtitles (when avlb) elementary streams as output. The decoder for subtitle shall be implemented also.

Requires strong C knowledge, basic understanding of video decoding.

*Proposed Mentor: Nicolas Bertrand aka Buxiness*

Chrome OS' NaCl support for VLC's core
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We want to add support for Google's Chrome OS. As a base, libvlccore, VLC's cross-platform compatibility core needs to be adapted to add support for Chrome OS' NaCl runtime environment. A base was laid internally last fall, but it is far from being complete. As time allows, this project should be expanded to add video and audio output modules for this platform as well as a basic, HTML-driven UI to test.

Requires strong C knowledge, good networking knowledge and a basic understanding of Native Client applications on Chrome OS.

*Proposed Mentor: feepk*

UPNP DLNA Server and Client
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Test and fix service discovery module for UPNP/DLNA shares done by software (mediatomb, xbmc, etc) and hardware implementations.

Provide DLNA plugin for DLNA server compliant with opensource (xbmc, djmount, etc) and proprietary (PS3, xbox360, etc) DLNA clients. Some of the work is already done by previous SoC students.

The plugin must be smart enough to provide "presets" for known DLNA media clients with limited features (PS3 or XBOX360 for starters) which require additional quirks or hacks or items to be transcoded or streamed.

Requires some VLC knowledge as the project will involve using Media Library and transcoding with VLC API.

*Proposed mentors: thresh, mirsal*

Assembly optimizations in VLC
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you are fond of writing ASM and you are fluent in MMX/SSE2/SSE4, there are many interesting things in VLC to speed up.

-  Profiling VLC
-  video filters ASM speedups (see modules/video_filter/blend.c)
-  audio filters ASM speedups (see modules/audio_filter/equalizer.c)
-  Porting other ASM video filters to VLC.

This project needs some good ASM knowledge and good C experience.

-  Stuff to read: http://www.agner.org/optimize/

*Proposed mentor:*\ `jb <User:J-b>`__

VLC Android Port improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Improve the current VLC for `Android <http://git.videolan.org/?p=vlc/vlc-ports/android.git;a=summary>`__.

-  playlist
-  equalizer
-  popup video
-  UI
-  Social network integrations.

*Proposed mentors:*\ `etix <User:etix>`__

Advanced Audio Filters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We are looking for a skilled **audiophile** that knows a lot about audio theory and practice to work on new audio filters.

Notably:

-  SRS WoW like or other 3D effects;
-  channels mixing, notably upmixing, like Prologic-II;
-  tracks mixing, and transitions;
-  scriptable new audio filters in lua and enable users to create whatever audio filtering function they want in a Lua script;
-  LADSPA or other libraries integration.

This project needs some good audio knowledge and good C experience.

*Qualification task*: port any audio filter from MPlayer

*Proposed mentor:*\ `geal <User:Geal>`__

VLC Test Suite
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This project aims at making automatic tests to improve VLC quality.

-  Write a series of tests for vlc-internal
-  Integrate a framework for automated plugins testing with the automake build system
-  Automate the different codec playback/mux/etc tests
-  Automate the subtitles tests
-  Write tests for the different bindings: Mac OS X Framework/Python Bindings... etc.

This project is a code project, require good knowledge of C

*Proposed mentor: Rémi*

VLC Personal Cloud Project 2.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The personal cloud project is a simple project to allow people to play their media files anywhere in the world.

Through the http interface of VLC, a user can:

-  list the medias from the Media Library,
-  play those medias,
-  those medias get transcoded and streamed in:

   -  Flash
   -  Silverlight
   -  iPhone format
   -  Android format
   -  html5
   -  A VLC webplugin

A good example of the aim is http://www.vodobox.c.la/

This project has to work on the configuration and NAT traversal.

This projects needs knowledge in HTML and JS; it might require C coding.

*Proposed mentor:*\ `jb <User:J-b>`__

Playlist improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We need to reinforce the media library capabilities and its integration with external metadata sources, notably for TV shows.

*Proposed mentor: jetru*

AirPlay streaming
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We need to be able to stream everything to your Google TV, Apple TV or raspberrypi powered shairport service. Airport is an non-open protocol that allows wireless streaming of audio, video, multimedia to supported devices.

The tasks would consist of:

-  Understanding how AirPlay works, try with any device if available.
-  Configure a test setup using raspberrypi or your own computer or any TV device if available, play with couple of available players who support AirPlay. This is just to get a feel of what it is you will be trying to implement for vlc-android.
-  Study couple of opensource implementations like shairport
-  Run/test/deploy VLC on simulator or android device
-  Implement an AirPlay aout that would stream audio to your AirPlay supported device (shairport with rpi/computer or Apple TV or Google TV)
-  Test with couple of android devices if available, ask mentors and community to test, report bugs, suggestions
-  Study how video works, vout for vlc works, if have time implement video streaming as well.

*Proposed mentor: bhaisaab/rohityadav*

MSI Windows Installer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The goal of this project is to improve and stabilize the upcoming default installer for the Windows platform. You'll have to work with the `Wix <http://wixtoolset.org>`__ toolkit and the autotools building system.

*Proposed mentor:*\ `etix <User:etix>`__

VLC Sync Play across devices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By leveraging zeroconf and rtsp make possible to decode in sync in multiple devices a video stored in one. Tasks:

-  Implement a simple protocol for discovery and announce
-  Implement the discovery system
-  At least one of the following

   -  Provide a UI for Qt (Windows / Linux)
   -  Provide a UI for Android
   -  Provide a UI for OS X

*Proposed mentor: lu_zero*

Native Emotion integration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Emotion is the Evas multimedia widget. It currently uses a number of backends and has a partial integration with VLC. Tasks:

-  Improve the integration to be on par with the gstreamer one
-  Write an example player using EmotionVLC

*Proposed mentor: lu_zero*

XML fast and small implementation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The goal of this project is to write a new XML backend, based on a smaller library than the full libxml2. Speed would be nice, but code size matters here. Beware: we need to have a stream-XML based API, not a DOM one.

This project requires good knowledge of C.

*Proposed mentor:*\ `etix <User:etix>`__

Other Ideas for VLC
-------------------

WTV support
~~~~~~~~~~~

Wtv format support *Proposed mentor: Laurent*

DVD audio support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Very difficult project for Audio fans *Proposed mentor:*\ `jb <User:J-b>`__

Device synchronisation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sync your mp3 player with the media library *Proposed mentor: jetru*

HD DVD support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Very difficult project for someone having the right hardware *Proposed mentor:*\ `jb <User:J-b>`__

Multi-Angle DVD support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We need multi-angle DVD support *Proposed mentor: Meuuh*

VLM UI for the Mac OS X interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Implement an easy-to-use, yet customizable and complete UI for the VideoLAN Media Manager, which allows VLC to stream multiple unicast, multicast and Video-on-Demand streams within a single instance. You will need a Mac running OS X 10.6 or later and Cocoa programming experience. A basic understanding of media streams is definitely preferable. Note that this task is too small for an entire summer and should be combined with another topic. *Proposed mentor:*\ `feepk <User:Fkuehne>`__

Improve messages display
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When VLC has a problem opening or playing files it shows a messages window on top of the player with the error. This can be annoying if the screen is being controlled remotely as the user has to manually dismiss the message. There are various ways this could be improved:

#. Update UI so that messages window will auto-dismiss after x seconds unless it is clicked on (this could be optional behaviour). Clicking on the window would cancel the countdown. If the window was selected from the menu, it would not auto-dismiss.
#. Mac OS: Display messages using notification system (if available). Clicking on the notification would open the messages window.

Suggested by : Confused Vorlon. *Proposed mentor:*\ `feepk <User:Fkuehne>`__

BD-J / BD-Live VLC integration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is a project to work on Bly-Ray menus and interactivity improvements.

This project requires a correct C and Java knowledge

Proposed mentor: hpi and `j-b <User:J-b>`__.

Support for HTTP Dynamic Streaming (F4M)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We need to be able to read Flash Media Manifests (also known as F4M) according to this spec.

Proposed mentor: fyhuel

Porting Audio Filters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We are looking for a skilled **audiophile** that knows a lot about audio theory and practice:

-  to port open source algorithm for audio filters to VLC.

This project needs some good audio knowledge and good C experience.

*Proposed mentor:*\ `geal <User:Geal>`__

.. raw:: mediawiki

   {{GSoC}}

`Category:SoC <Category:SoC>`__
