Those rules are mostly for x264 and VLC.

   Those rules are quite flexible for any situation.

= Rules = ''We don't like rules.''

''We like freedom and having fun with software programming.''

However, we have no choice, seeing past experiences and issues. :'(

== Summer Generalities == If you are a student, we expect that: \* You
don't have a full-time job during your summer if you are doing SoC at
the same time, \* You are of good will to work within VideoLAN team.

If you are a mentor, we expect that: \* You are willing to work with one
student and answers his questions.

== Selection ==

To be selected, students will have to: \* Show on IRC, \* Join the
mailing lists (x264-devel or vlc-devel, according to your project), \*
Select an idea, \* Say hello to the potential mentor and admin.

-  Learn about the code you should modify (where in the source, what is
   the idea...),
-  Be able to compile a VLC for your platform (for VLC development) and
   learn how to use [[Git]].
-  Show the team that you compiled VLC, by probably provide a small
   patch and a build. You can send the patch to an admin or to
   vlc-devel@

Examples of small patches: \*\* Fix warnings, \*\* Add some simple
feature that sounds nice to you, \*\* Close a VLC bug on trac, \*\* add
a dropdown choice for audio devices to the Direct Sound output module,
\*\* Make it possible to change the list of destinations in a duplicate
stream output element dynamically, \*\* Extend the DBus control to
activate a video filter on the fly on an already playing video. \*\* Add
RMI (RIFF MIDI) support to the SMF demux \*\* Last.fm radio playing \*\*
libsox based module

-  Complete the Google admission and give a planning idea.

== During the summer ==

=== Student expectations === \* Student should explain his planning to
his mentor and to an admin (not everyone has the same vacations) \*
Student should report with a small mail once a week to both mentor and
admin during the time agreed (failure to do that will fail the
application) \* Student should commit on his personal ''git branch''
once a week, except the first week of your schedule (or more if your
project is complex). '''Explaining why you can't work one week is fine.
Disappearing without notice is not.''' \* Update wiki status page.

=== Student rights === \* Ask questions and stupid questions to anyone
\* Bother the mentor with questions \* Ask the admin for another mentor
if the mentor doesn't answer or doesn't fit.

Students will be considered as '''full-right''' developers.

=== Mentor expectations === \* Mentor should report to admins any
problems as soon as noticed, \* Mentor should tell admins if they can't
make it in order to have another mentor for the student.

=== Mentor rights === \* Fail a student :D

= Advices =

== To get selected ==

-  Be nice
-  Show us some code on VLC, that shows us sure you know how to compile
   VLC.
-  Show us some code on VLC, that shows us that you understand the VLC
   architecture.
-  Come on IRC.

== During the SoC == '''''COMMIT EARLY, COMMIT OFTEN'''''

Ask questions

[[Category:SoC 2008 Project|*]]
