{{SoCProjectstudent=[[User:dudiakmentor=[[User:Fkuehne|Felix Paul
Kühne]]}}

=Mac OS X (Leopard) Integration=

==Abstract==

Unlike Windows and Linux, Mac OS X does not offer much in terms of
alternatives to its built-in QuickTime media player. VLC media player
represents the only Mac media player with significant support for
various media formats and a tight integration with the OS, including a
"Mac-like" user interface. As it is the only full, viable alternative to
QuickTime on the Mac OS X platform, it is important that it stay current
with various Mac technologies to offer users a comprehensive option for
media playback.

Aspects of tighter Mac OS X integration: *Quick Look Generator for
Leopard (to generate thumbnails and full media previews from the
Finder)*\ Making most common preferences accessible in a Mac-style
preference window organized with icon tabs across the top such as in
Safari and Mail. *Moving the Readme document and other help resources
into a HelpViewer HTML document to allow better help searching in
Leopard.*\ Improvements in steaming server wizard to be more in-line
with other Mac wizards and easier to use for personal streaming between
Macs. *Add better support for package files that contain media VLC can
play, such as iMovie Projects and EyeTV recordings.*\ Update the VLC
file icons to the 512 by 512 size for Leopard.

==Detailed Description==

This project will use the libraries provided by Apple for creating a
Quick Look Generator. Due to various restrictions placed on these by
Apple, the method for generating the live preview may use the mozilla
plugin if no better alternative can be found. Creating these
enhancements will require a combination of C and Objective-C. The Quick
Look function should generate a thumbnail when simply browsing the
Finder or viewing with CoverFlow and should provide full playback when
the spacebar is pressed (which actually opens the Quick View). For those
not familiar with the details of Mac OS X, Apple provides very specific
models for Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) defined in documents on
their [http://developer.apple.com developer site]. In addition to
providing the Quick Look functionality, I will be attempting to bring
VLC more in line with these usability guidelines. This will include
updating the preferences window to have a more Mac OS X feel and
organization to it for at least the most fundamental set of preferences
(with the rest to be accessible in the traditional way). I will also be
moving some of the documentation into HelpViewer format to allow easy
searching of it directly from the menu bar in Leopard. Also, I will be
designing a new Streaming/Transcoding Wizard that better matches the Mac
OS X wizard look and feel, such as the in the Bluetooth Setup Assistant
or Network Setup Assistant. The new icons should look more like other
modern Mac OS X file icons since the current ones more closely resemble
icons found in the Mac OS X Public Beta. These new icons should be
included for several of the formats that are newer to VLC (and were not
supported when the old icons were made) and should differentiate between
types (audio vs. video) in the icon style.

==Development Plan==

*Research both Apple and community documentation on Quick Look
Generators.*\ Attempt to create a simple, dynamic Quick Look Generator
to test the ability to create such generators. *<s>Failing that, create
a simple Quick Look Generator that uses a custom WebKit
plugin.</s>*\ Move to developing a Quick Look Generator for VLC that
uses whichever method was more successful. *Create Quick Look Generator
that plays at least one VLC media format (no controls yet, just basic
playback).*\ Add support for additional formats. *Add thumbnail
generation for supported formats.*\ Add basic playback controls
(play/pause, possibly mute and scrubber) *If ahead of schedule, add
support for displaying relevant metadata, such as ID3 tags for MP3
files.*\ Create new Mac OS X icon files. *Evaluate icons/Quick View with
community and sample end users.*\ Work on new Mac OS X interface
*Perform think aloud evaluation on prototype.*\ Refine prototype.
\*Build fully functional version in VLC.

==Weekly Schedule== This schedule only includes coding plans for about a
month going forward because I will have to asses what has been completed
of my plan for each week before planning additional weeks. It does,
however, include all known conflicts for the entire period.<br> '''Week
1 (May 26 – May 30)'''<br> *Review Apple documentation for Quick Look
development*\ Review potential of VLCkit *Review potential of VLC WebKit
plugin*\ Start building Quick Look Generator ''Completed:'' *Review
Apple documentation*\ Decided to start development with the VLC
WebKit/Mozilla plugin *Started coding on the generator '''Week 2 (June 2
– June 6)'''<br>*\ Finish alpha Quick Look Generator for previews
''Completed:'' *Alpha not yet ready. Will continue work into week 3.
'''Week 3 (June 9 – June 13)'''<br>*\ Add thumbnail support *Finish
preview work from week 2. ''Completed:''*\ Created new icon files at
512x512 resolution '''Week 4 (June 16 – June 20)'''<br> *Refine
controls/appearance for Quick Look.*\ Create new icons *Evaluate Quick
Look and icons ''Completed:''*\ Made a quicklook preview by converting
VLC files into QuickTime files '''Week 5 (June 23 – June 27)'''<br>
*Start new interface design '''Week 6 (June 30 – July
4)'''<br>*\ Continue new interface prototype *Away Tuesday onward (still
online, just unlikely able to work) '''Week 7 (July 7 – July
11)'''<br>*\ Arrive back on Tuesday (still online, just unlikely able to
work) *Integrate new interface into existing VLC code*\ Midterm
evalutation '''Week 8 (July 14 – July 18)'''<br> *Get playback working
in new UI*\ Get basic controls working *Create additional new icons for
interface '''Week 9 (July 21 – July 25)'''<br>*\ Set up sidebar/source
bar to act as expected *Make resizing work correctly*\ Finish setting up
controls '''Week 10 (July 28 – August 1)'''<br> *Fix drawing
errors*\ Fix resize errors *Allow dragging by background*\ Fix/update
git repository '''Week 11 (August 4 – August 8)'''<br> *Integrate
playlist into new interface*\ Add content to sidebar/sourcebar '''Week
12 (August 11 – August 15)'''<br> *Wrap up coding '''After August
15'''<br>*\ August 16: Leave for California (Apple Cocoa Camp) *August
24: Leave for Sweden (Study Abroad Semester)*\ Final evaluation Note: I
will still be within contact after leaving for Sweden. Also, since this
is past the end of coding date (August 11 week), I should not have any
problems not having a work visa (although my student visa does allow me
to work). I will still be able to complete the final evaluation before
September 1.

==New Icon Prototypes== '''Current Icon:'''<br>
http://www.dudiak.com/VLC-Icons/generic.png\ <br> '''New Icons at
(reduced) 128 x 128 resolution:'''<br>
http://www.dudiak.com/VLC-Icons/Sample.png\ <br> These new icons are
designed to better highlight the contents of files and better meet the
Apple Interface Guidelines for document icons. These icons are also
rendered at 512 x 512 to support Mac OS X Leopard's higher resolution
icon standard and can be scaled larger if needed (all graphics are
vectors). Furthermore, the use of six generic icons instead of one
allows future formats to be easily added without the need for more
icons. As current users of VLC for Mac OS X know, the "blank" icon is
often used for more newly supported formats in VLC such as MKV, FLV,
FLAC, and others. When adding a format, an icon that matches the type of
file could be used to be more specific without needing to make an icon
that says "FLAC" on it. That being said, I intend to create titled icons
for the majority of currently-supported files, but will also include
these six generic ones for future file support. Also, it should be noted
that the more of these 512 x 512 icons included, the larger the VLC
download will become as they are much larger than the current 128 x 128.
These icons range from 96 KB to 276 KB when exported as apple .icns
files. The full resolution versions can be seen
[http://www.dudiak.com/VLC-Icons/ here].<br> ''Please email me all
comments at [`mailto:dudiak@gmail.com <mailto:dudiak@gmail.com>`__
dudiak@gmail.com]. Thanks!''

==New Interface== '''July 29, 2008:'''<br>
[http://www.dudiak.com/VLC-Icons/new_interface.mp4 First Prototype
Functioning]<br> '''August 12, 2008:'''<br>
[http://www.dudiak.com/VLC-Icons/new_interface_2.mp4 Feature Complete
Version]<br>
