Google Summer of Code 2008.

''VideoLAN is an official mentoring organization'' for {{VLC}} and
[[x264]] for Google Summer of Code 2008.

Look at the projects: [[SoC_2008_projects]].

== Introduction & Information ==

This wiki page covers the attempt by the [[VideoLAN]] project to act as
a mentoring organization for [http://code.google.com/soc/ Google Summer
of Code], in order to improve {{VLC}} and [[x264]], the H.264 video
encoder.

-  This page list the ideas for VLC.
-  There is also a separate page for project ideas for the [[x264]]:
   [[SoC x264 2008]].

If you are a '''student''', please read the [[SoC_2008_Rulesadvices]].

=== VLC media player === {{VLC}} is a cross-platform Multimedia player,
and encoding and streaming application. It is one of the most successful
open-source projects without any professional structure underneath.

{{VLC}} is downloaded at an approximate monthly rate of 4 millions from
the main website (not including third-party distributions (Linux)),
which means about 30 million people have downloaded VLC 0.8.5 from the
main website!

You can find more information on
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VLC_media_player VLC on Wikipedia] or on
this [[Main_Page|wiki]].

=== Summer of Code ===

If selected and developed, SoC ideas will be included in the VLC 0.9.1
or any later version release, and covered by the GPL licence.

=== Ideas ===

'''''Read this'''''

We (the VideoLAN team, and [[User:J-b|jb]], the author of this page)
have split this page in three lists of ideas: \* The ''main ideas'' are
the ones we would like to focus on, and seem to be key projects for VLC
and a lot more ''thrilling'' than the other ones; we have assigned a
potential mentor to each of these. \* The other ideas are less detailed
but could be good ideas too. \* Original good ideas will be valued. Last
year, half of the ideas were given by students. [[Mini_Projects]] has
some ideas too.

We don't want to impose anything. This is free and Open Source software.
Last year, many projects were external ideas.

If you don't want to apply for SoC but want other ideas to develop on,
check the [[Mini Projects]] page!

And on IRC channel, you can have even more ideas.

===x264=== For x264 ideas, please see [[SoC x264 2009]].

== Main ideas ==

=== Test Suite === This project aims at making automatic tests to
improve VLC quality.

-  Write a series of tests for vlc-internal
-  Integrate a framework for automated plugins testing with the automake
   build system
-  Automate the different codec playback/mux/etc tests
-  Automate the subtitles tests
-  Write tests for the different bindings: Mac OS X Framework/Python
   Bindings... etc.

This project is a code project, require some knowledge of C

''Proposed mentor: [[User:Pdherbemont]]'' (backup: courmisch)

=== MTP Device Service Discovery === This projects consists of adding
support for finding and reading content from attached USB MTP (Media
Transfer Protocol) devices, such as the Apple iPod, as a Service
Discovery and input plugins for VLC.

This project might need improvements in the Service Discovery subsystem
for hotplug.

This project needs a student to have a MP3 player device...

You should have a look at [http://libmtp.sf.net libmtp library] and at
[http://blog.songbirdnest.com/2008/02/29/mtp-device-support-for-windows/
Songbird MTP implementation].

''Proposed mentor: funman'' (backup jb)

=== QuickTimeVR Playback === This project deals with integration
QuickTimeVR inside VLC using work from [http://freepv.sf.net FreePV]
(SoC 2007). Other panoramic data inputs include video surveillance
cameras with a 360° lens, regular images, etc.

This project is likely to require some modification of the VLC image
handling code.

''Proposed mentor: dionoea'' (backup Yuval Levy)

''Interested students:'' [[User:Plouj]]

=== UPnP media service === This project involves adding support for
advertizing the stream on the LAN using Universal Plug'n'Play A/V /
DLNA.

Streaming to the PS3 can be one achievement of it.

Using [http://libdlna.geexbox.org/ libdlna] might be a good idea.

Having a cross platform solution is almost a must.

''Proposed mentor: funman''

''Interested students: [http://wiki.videolan.org/User_talk:Suheaven Hang
Su] [[User:Mr_Mirsal \| Mirsal Ennaime]][User:herbert]''

=== GUI interfaces for the browsers plug-ins === This project focuses on
adding interfaces to our browser plug-ins, in order to have, in the web
pages embedded mode, buttons to control {{VLC}} as in WMP or Youtube
player. These buttons need to be cross-platform and cross-browsers.

The second part of this project aims to provide a replacement for all
preconfigured media players embedded in web pages, if possible.

For example, when a webpage asks for WMP embedded plugin, youtube
player, quicktime player or any other, VLC would detect the stream and
display it. This would mean less CPU needed than Flash based players...

This project may need to work in concert with some improvements on the
cache handling module access.

The look of the interface should not be a problem (it can be added later
on).

''Proposed mentor: dionoea''

=== Fullscreen Controller === This project is easy to describe, it would
provide a fullscreen controller for Linux/Unix and Windows, as {{VLC}}
already has on Mac OS X version since 0.8.6.

It should: \* be draggable, \* be clickable, \* support the classical
control buttons to control VLC playback in fullscreen mode, \* have all
the VLC functionalities in it.

With this project, which is not too long, there should be some related
work on Vout (Making sure the video output does not close and reopen
between files for example...)

This project needs basic C++ knowledge. Qt knowledge would be a plus.

This project should be doable by any serious student in a summer.

Aim:
[http://download.videolan.org/vlc/screenshots/0.8.6/VLC-mac-Fullscreen.jpg
VLC on Mac fullscreen controller]

''Proposed mentor: [[User:J-b|jb]]'' (backup atmo)

== More Ideas ==

=== QTKit access === This project means to deal with building a
QTKit-based access module for OS X (allowing input from USB / FireWire
cameras, audio devices, camcorders, tape recorders [, ...your favourite
here] ).

This access module will also need a nice GUI Integration.

This project requires C, preferably Obj-C, knowledge and interest in
video/audio capture devices. Obviously, the student is required to own
at a least a Mac with a (embedded) webcam and an audio input facility
for development. Knowledge of the QuickTime APIs and previous experience
with Cocoa are strong pluses.

''Proposed mentor: BigBen'' (backup feepk)

=== Leopard integration === \* a QuickLook-plugin for OS X Leopard \*
Video Output animations \* VLC_app (VLCKit based) improvements. \*
VLCKit oneclick-Streaming Server implementation.

This project requires C, preferably Obj-C, knowledge and interest in GUI
programming. Previous experience with Cocoa preferred. Basic Core
Animation knowledge is a plus, but far from being absolutely necessary.

''Proposed mentors: pdherbemont, feepk''

=== iPhone / iPod touch port === Port VLC to the iPhone / iPod touch
platform.

The student is not required to own such a device due to the availability
of a simulator as part of the official SDK, although it may be helpful.

This project requires good C, preferably Obj-C, knowledge and basic
skills in shell programming (autotools, ...). Previous experience with
development for embedded devices is a strong plus.

''Proposed mentor: pdherbemont'' (backup feepk)

=== Vista acceleration and DirectX improvements === Current versions of
{{VLC}} have a lot of problems on Windows Vista (check the forums for
specifics).

We need support for the new EVR (enhanced video renderer) in Windows
Vista, and make it the default Video Output module for that OS.

See
[http://download.microsoft.com/download/5/b/9/5b97017b-e28a-4bae-ba48-174cf47d23cd/MED134_WH06.ppt
Windows Vista Video Pipeline Architecture And Implementation] and
[http://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms788119.aspx DirectShow
Improvements in Vista]

Some rework and enhancements of the DirectX and Direct3D Video Output
modules may also be necessary.

This project requires C++ experience. Knowledge of the related Win32
APIs is obviously a plus.

''Proposed mentor: atmo''

=== Automated threading error detection === VLC is heavily
multithreaded.

This project would involve extending the VLC threading APIs to provide
better run-time consistency checks, and possibly proof of correctness.

This could be similar to the lock consistency checking in the Linux
kernel, albeit more simple - VLC does not have to deal with
interruptions neither atomic operation and has fewer thread and
synchronisation constructs.

This project requires working knowledge of the C programming language
and POSIX threads.

''mentoring would be done by courmisch''

=== Assembly optimizations in VLC ===

If you are fond of writing ASM and you are fluent in MMX/SSE2, there are
many interesting things in VLC to speed up. \* memcpy implementations in
SSE2 \* video filters ASM speedups \* audio filters ASM speedups \*
Porting other ASM video filters to VLC. \* Profiling VLC.

This project needs some good ASM knowledge and good C experience.

''Proposed mentor: jb, Dark_Shikari"

=== Matroska (mkv) muxing ===

This project is about writing a mkv muxer for VLC with advanced support
(chapters, multiple audio and multiple subtitles, etc...) like when you
need to rip or archive a DVD.

FFMPEG project has a similar project, and we could use the libavformat
muxer and adapt ourselves, but we are not sure if we will be able to use
therefore all the advanced features.

''robUx4 can do the mentoring. He has already wrote the demux and has
worked for matroska, so knows it very well.''

=== WinCE port === The WinCE port has been broken for some time now
before 0.8.4. Repairing the builds of all the external libraries build
and making VLC build and work should take some time :D

Then a rework of the interface should happen.

''Proposed mentor: djc.''

=== Skins improvements ===

Better video output integration.

Better skin support.

See with [[User:J-b|jb]]

=== SVCD handling ===

Make SVCD's work. Menu selection, navigation and hot spots.

''Proposed mentor: rockyb.''

== Mini Projects - More ideas ==

'''Original''' ideas will be '''rewarded.'''

We have a more general page for ideas for Project in {{VLC}}, that could
give you ideas: [[Mini_Projects]].

-  Visualisation improvements (libprojectM implementation ? )
-  Video rework.

== Questions? Contact us? == If you need to contact us for any
questions, you can: \* use this [[Talk:SoC_2008\| Talk page]], \* use
the [http://www.videolan.org/developers/lists.html vlc-devel] mailing
list, \* come on IRC irc://irc.videolan.org #videolan \* contact one of
the mentors or the backup mentors, \* or contact [[User:J-b\|
Jean-Baptiste Kempf]]

=== Mentors === The proposed mentors are: \* courmisch, \* dionoea, \*
djc \* feepk, \* pdherbemont, \* jb, \* funman, \* robUx4, \* BigBen \*
rockyb (for VCD/SVCD)

=== Administrators === \* jb \* xtophe

{{GSoC}}

[[Category:SoC 2008 Project|*]]
