[[x264]] has loads of possibilities for [[SoC 2008]] projects. This is
part of the VideoLAN candidature for Google Summer of Code 2008.

*Mentor (and author of this page): Dark Shikari*\ Possible backup
mentor: pengvado

==Introduction to x264== x264 is probably the most efficient,
compression-wise, open source video encoder there is. It is quite
competitive with commercial encoders, outclassing a large number of
them.

While not actually part of VLC or ffmpeg (it has its own codebase), it
is a major library used by both, licensed under the GPL, in addition to
being a standalone encoder. As the only major open-source H.264 encoder,
x264 has a near-complete monopoly on H.264 encoding in the consumer
world, along with being used by many major corporations, including
Facebook and Google. Some companies, such as Avail Media, have in the
past offered bounties on improvements to the encoder.

==x264 project ideas== This is not at all an exhaustive list; this is
just a few I thought up with. I'm willing to mentor any reasonable
project on x264 to the best of my ability. I'm being pretty conservative
here, so I'm picking projects that are probably not at all too ambitious
for a good student. If anything, I might be underestimating the amount
of work that can be done, so feel free to propose something else if
you're feeling creative. :-- Dark Shikari

===Size key=== Depends heavily on the skill and willingness to work of
the student. An extremely dedicated and talented student might be able
to implement MBAFF in a summer, but it is certainly not fair to expect
such a thing from most students.

*Very Large: Probably too large to completed in one summer.*\ Large:
Probably the right size for a full-summer project. *Medium: Probably too
small. Could be combined with another project, of course.*\ Small: A
small project, but definitely useful, and could be part of a larger
project.

===Skills needed=== These are required for all listed projects and
probably anything not listed, too. *Basic C programming.*\ Basic
understanding of video encoding, or at least willingness to do the
appropriate reading up on the topic before the summer begins.
*Confidence in the ability to learn the basics of following and similar
topics (though not all projects will require such information):
:*\ Discrete cosine transform and similar frequency transforms :*Motion
estimation and compensation :*\ Quantization and entropy encoding A PDF
with a chapter that can serve as a primer to video compression can be
found [http://www.mediafire.com/download.php?auxd23m2snw here]. It also
has some more specific chapters on MPEG-4 Part 2 and Part 10.

==Projects== ===Fast inter refinement=== ''Size: Medium to large.''

Description: Improve heuristics and decision-making for inter refinement
to improve efficiency on non-insane encoding settings. This would
involve various early termination heuristics along with methods of
deciding which partition modes need to be searched while performing
minimal actual searching on those partition modes. This would be similar
to, but a vastly more in-depth analysis of what was proposed in the
"Fast-Ref-Search" patch.

Difficulty: Medium

===Fast intra refinement=== ''Size: Small to medium''

Description: Similar to above, but covering intra modes instead. Would
probably involve considerable statistical analysis of intra mode data,
along with creative solutions for improved RDO refinement. We already
have some ideas on this one, but haven't implemented any of them.

Difficulty: Medium

===RDO B-frame decision=== ''Size: Medium to large''

Description: x264's biggest weakness is its B-frame decision algorithm,
which can often be extremely subtopimal, with OPSNR losses as high as
1db in some cases. Improving this would drastically increase the
effectiveness of the encoder.

Difficulty: Medium-high

===4:4:4 and 4:2:2 color support=== ''Size: Medium to large''

Description: x264 doesn't support any color spaces other than YV12. This
would solve this problem by adding the ability to use YUY2 and YV24
color spaces. This might be useful for some animation footage, or
graphics; plus its been requested often.

Difficulty: Medium

===Film grain modeling=== ''Size: Medium to large''

An integral part of the standard... but supported by basically nothing
despite its potential usefulness. This would involve implementing FGM in
both x264 '''and''' some sort of decoder, preferably ffmpeg. Some work
has already been done in this category, so you won't be starting from
nothing.

Difficulty: Medium

===Other possible projects=== Anything here (and not here) can
potentially be picked from at the request of a student.

*Assembly optimizations of any sort :*\ Extra skills: Assembly coding
:*Difficulty: Medium :*\ Examples: ::*Port cacheline split to the motion
compensation code for increased speed (this could further be used to
improve ffh264's decoding). ::*\ Assembly-optimize some things that
haven't been already. ::*Port some MMX assembly to SSE where it seems
useful. ::*\ Play around with potential SSE4 optimizations.

*Psychovisual optimizations for mode decision and quantization (e.g.
QNS) :*\ Could also include work on adaptive quantization, a huge
benefit for x264 quality-wise. :*Extra skills: Creativity and perhaps
some understanding of DCT/Fourier math. :*\ Difficulty: Medium-high
:*Examples: ::*\ SSIM-QNS optimization? ::*Adaptive deadzone?
::*\ Adaptive lambda?

*Implementing MBAFF or PicAFF (potentially too difficult for a SoC
project, however) :*\ Difficulty: Very high

*Fast RD optimization using heuristics :*\ Extra skills: Reading lots of
IEEE papers :*Difficulty: Medium

*Motion search improvements :*\ Difficulty: Medium

*More RDO :*\ Difficulty: Medium

\*Anything else reasonable, honestly. There's all sorts of ideas
floating around.

==Qualification tasks== Before you start work these, drop by #x264dev
and meet me (Dark Shikari) first. These should be done in order, and the
results submitted to me at darkshikari[at]gmail.com. Bonus points will
be given for *good* solutions or creative ones, not just ones that work.
Well-commented and styled code is also a bonus. Feel free to do any
research necessary to complete the task; this isn't a closed-notes test!

Rules: You can ask any question on IRC you want. There are no rules
about where you can get any information--all that matters is that
through your own effort or the help of others, or both, you get these
completed. Feel free to ask me for help, up to a point, at any part in
this, especially if you need algorithmic explanations or details on
video encoding concepts behind the algorithms. However, if you ask for
too much assistance without at least trying it yourself, I may penalize
you.

Qualification tasks:

#Download the x264 source. You will figure out how to do this yourself.
Make sure to use git, not svn; the svn is not updated anymore, and the
last build is broken, so use git! #Compile the x264 source and encode a
sample video with the latest build off git. Upload the video as a .h264
file to Mediafire or a similar site, and email it to me at
darkshikari[at]gmail.com with your name. And don't cheat, because I know
what version you encoded it with! The only requirement is that the video
be 1000 frames long and encoded in two-pass mode with bitrate 1000kbps.
The video you choose is completely your own choice, but I suggest you
choose one with a good bit of motion, for part 3). #Your real
qualification task will be playing with me.c, in particular,
x264_me_search_ref(), the primary motion search in x264. '''It is not
required that you succeed at this, only that you make your best
effort!''' In particular, you'll be working after line 227, "switch(
h->mb.i_me_method )". This is where all five of the motion search
methods are: DIA, HEX, UMH, ESA, and TESA. ::Simple explanation of
commands in me.c that you'll need to know: ::*CHECK_MVRANGE(x,y): check
the motion vector range of vector <x,y>. There's a 5-pixel buffer, so
you can move by up to 5 pixels in the x and/or y direction before having
to check it again. ::*\ COST_MV(x,y): Run a check on location x,y.
::*COST_MV_X4(x0,y0,x1,y1,x2,y2,x3,y3): Takes eight arguments; note that
these are OFFSETS from a base value of <omx,omy>. Note this is quite a
bit faster than calling COST_MV 4 times. ::A simple analysis of the DIA
motion search, for example: ::case X264_ME_DIA: ::/* diamond search,
radius 1 */ :::for( i = 0; i < i_me_range; i++ ) :::{ ::::DIA1_ITER(
bmx, bmy ); ::::if( bmx == omx && bmy == omy ) :::::break; ::::if(
!CHECK_MVRANGE(bmx, bmy) ) :::::break; :::} ::: break; ::The for loop
runs up to the merange parameter. At each point, DIA1_ITER is called,
which just does COST_MV_X4 on all 4 neighboring locations. If none of
these is better than the current one, it breaks out. If one is better,
it selects that as the new center and loops to the beginning again. And
if the MVrange is greater than the max, it breaks out too. This
algorithm is often known as EPZS, or simply "diamond search." ::Now that
you know the basics of how this works, glance over the ME HEX and ME UMH
functions to see how they work. Ignore ESA/TESA; these use some quite
heavily optimized and complex code that you will probably not comprehend
in the least. ::Now that you get the basic idea, write me a motion
search that is faster than UMH, slower than HEX, but still better than
HEX. This shouldn't be '''too''' difficult, since UMH is quite slow by
comparison to HEX, so you have a very large margin in which to beat HEX.
Your only requirement is that it be very little like HEX or UMH; i.e.
you can't just rip of one of the two and modify it slightly. ::Measuring
the effectiveness of the motion search is simple: simply see how good
you can get the PSNR value at a particular target bitrate. Ideally, on
the video you choose, UMH will be a lot better than HEX, so there's a
lot of margin of improvement between the two. ::Your motion search need
not be practical or worthwhile--it must merely fall within those
parameters mentioned above. ::I would also suggest you test it on more
than one video, not just the one from 2); its possible to make the
mistake of optimizing for a single video at the expense of others.
::When you're done, email me the resulting patch for x264 and any extra
information you think would be useful.*\ This list isn't complete. I may
add more if there's time left and we haven't narrowed it down to the
right number of students yet. ===Updates=== *Your algorithm should be
'''deterministic'''. This means, unlike one algorithm submitted so far
(which wasn't half-bad!)... it cannot contain rand().*\ Your algorithm
shouldn't violate the MV range limit as stated previously. If it does it
might lead to random crashing, which we obviously don't want. \*If
there's not a large difference between HEX and UMH, you won't have much
room to work! Try to find a high-motion source where the difference is
measurable. :May I strongly recommend the free 1080p source of
Elephant's Dream? Low-resolution sources don't have much motion, in
terms of pixels-moved-per frame, so they're not good for measuring
efficiency of complex motion searches.

==Contact info== If you are interested, drop by #videolan, #x264, or
#x264dev on Freenode.

You should also contact the admin [[User:J-b|jb]].

{{GSoC}}

[[Category:SoC]] [[Category:x264]]
