Nice how to :) I'm not sure that we really need two different howto for compiling VLC for win32 though. Trax's cygwin compile howto on http://developers.videolan.org/vlc/ already covers lots of stuff. So you might want to merge both (ask trax fist, you can find him on #videolan on Freenode) -- `Dionoea <User:Dionoea>`__ 15:13, 24 June 2006 (CEST)

The binary contribs that exist on the page as of now are out of date. Asking around, updated packages can be found at http://people.videolan.org/~jb/Contribs/ . Updated binary Qt libraries can be had at http://download.videolan.org/pub/testing/contrib/qt4-4.4.1-win32-bin.tar.bz2 tar -C / -jxvf /path/to/contribs.tar.bz2 && tar -C /usr/win32 --strip 1 /path/to/qt-bin.tar.bz2 `Keithel <User:Keithel>`__ 23:18, 7 October 2008 (CEST)

From comments from j-b, it's best to use the 20080811 contribs at the moment, as the ffmpeg build is bad in it. To get beyond the qjpeg linkage problem, after configure has been run, hack the vlc-config script to add it to the qt4 libs section. Then there will be a failure in the gnutls plugin linking, -- gpg-error lib missing. `Keithel <User:Keithel>`__ 19:19, 8 October 2008 (CEST)

Final fixes to make cross-compile all working using 0811 contribs + qt4-4.4.1 package: Apply contribs as in my above comments. Modify Makefile.am in root, changing ACLOCAL_AMFLAGS to -I m4 -I /usr/win32/share/aclocal . run the bootstrap - ./bootstrap. Then pass --with-libgcrypt-prefix=$CONTRIBS to configure in addition to params supplied in this article. Once configure is done, modify vlc-config , search for qt4 section and -lQtCore. Put -lqjpeg after it. Now run 'make' and everything should build properly. `Keithel <User:Keithel>`__ 01:43, 9 October 2008 (CEST)
