Comments

== Exception ==

A "libvcl_exception \* libvlc_exception_create(void)" function should be
great. Actualy, the API let use an opaque exception structure but you
need to know the structure size anyway !

== Vout ==

toggle_fullscreen() is useless from an embedder point of view: if I am
writing an application, I need to set the movie fullscreen or not. Which
makes me think that the same reasoning should apply to audio_mute: we
should rather have set_mute/get_mute: the status of mute is of interest
for an application developer.

[[User:Zorglubtalk]]) Yes. I was thinking about actually putting both
options for simplicity.

[[User:OlivierAuberttalk]]) Both options can be a little redundant, but
it does not cost much anyway.

== Playlist ==

[[User:Zorglubtalk]]) I don't really know how to handle playlist
retrieval as VLC playlist is not a simple list ...

[[User:OlivierAuberttalk]]) Yes, but it is a needed functionality
anyway. We can defined a flattened view of the playlist, which will not
exactly map to the playlist but be a reasonable view.

== VLM ==

[[User:Dionoeatalk]]) Something like libvlc_vlm_cmd( libvlc_instance *,
char*\ cmd, libvlc_exception ) could be usefull. This would let the
enduser do whatever he wants with vlm easily.

== autogeneration? ==

I have been cutting and pasting out of this page into my code, and a
number of the function names and arguments are slightly wrong. I have
corrected a few. Is there a way to autogenerate *just* these API calls
out of the sources? [[User:Davidlallen|Davidlallen]] 22:57, 20 August
2007 (CEST)

It is possible to have a look to the doxygen
[http://www.videolan.org/developers/vlc/doc/doxygen/html/group__libvlc.html
autogenerated documentation] to have up-to-date names extracted from the
source code. Copy as text the first part (summary docs), paste into a
file, then apply a <code>grep -v '^ '</code> on this file and you will
have a quite good listing of its API.
[[User:Thannoy/stripped_Libvlc_API\| Here]] is a fast (not perfect)
generation. --[[User:Thannoy|Thannoy]] 11:29, 1 March 2008 (CET)

== Delphi port == VLC API as changed a lot seens I've made the Delphi
port...but there's no up to date documentation of the new API so I will
not update my code...in fact, I've tried with last release (0.9.9) with
both this Wiki and doxygen, but libvlc_new() just hang the application
after some debug messages.

<pre> program VLC99;

{$APPTYPE CONSOLE}

uses
   Windows;

function getLibPath: string; var Handle: HKEY; RegType: Integer;
DataSize: Integer; begin Result := ''; if
(RegOpenKeyEx(HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE, 'SoftwareVideoLANVLC', 0,
KEY_ALL_ACCESS, Handle) = ERROR_SUCCESS) then begin if
RegQueryValueEx(Handle, 'InstallDir', nil, @RegType, nil, @DataSize) =
ERROR_SUCCESS then begin SetLength(Result, Datasize);
RegQueryValueEx(Handle, 'InstallDir', nil, @RegType, PByte(@Result[1]),
@DataSize); Result[DataSize]:=''; end; RegCloseKey(Handle); end; end;

type
   libvlc_exception = record
      raised : Integer; code : Integer; Msg : PChar;

   end;

var
   path : string; lib : THandle; core : THandle; init : function(argc:
   Integer; args: PPChar; var excpt: libvlc_exception): Pointer; cdecl;
   args : array[0..1] of PChar; plugins : string; excpt :
   libvlc_exception; vlc : Pointer;

begin
   path := getLibPath; // load core dll first core :=
   LoadLibrary(PChar(path + 'libvlccore.dll')); if core = 0 then
   WriteLn('can''t load libvlccore'); lib := LoadLibrary(PChar(path +
   'libvlc.dll')); if lib = 0 then WriteLn('can''t load libvlc'); @init
   := GetProcAddress(lib, 'libvlc_new'); if @init = nil then
   WriteLn('can''t find libvlc_new()') else begin FillChar(excpt,
   SizeOf(excpt), 0); plugins := '--plugin-path=' + path + 'plugins';
   args[0] := PChar(plugins); args[1] := nil; vlc := init(1, @args[0],
   excpt); WriteLn('never executed !'); // :( end; WriteLn('done');
   ReadLn;

end. </pre> just display this and never return to the calling delphi
application : <pre> [00000001] main libvlc debug: VLC media player -
version 0.9.9 Grishenko - (c) 1 996-2009 the VideoLAN team [00000001]
main libvlc debug: libvlc was configured with ../configure '--host=i
586-mingw32msvc' '--build=i386-linux' '--enable-mkv' '--enable-release'
'--witho ut-contrib' '--enable-nls' '--enable-shared-libvlc'
'--enable-update-check' '--e nable-lua' '--enable-faad' '--enable-flac'
'--enable-theora' '--enable-twolame' '--enable-quicktime'
'--enable-real' '--enable-realrtsp' '--enable-ffmpeg' '--wi
th-ffmpeg-mp3lame' '--with-ffmpeg-faac'
'--with-ffmpeg-config-path=/usr/win32/bi n' '--with-ffmpeg-zlib'
'--enable-live555' '--with-live555-tree=/usr/win32/live. com' '--en
[00000001] main libvlc debug: translation test: code is "C" </pre>

--[[User:PaulTOTH|PaulTOTH]] 20:38, 3 May 2009 (CEST)
