I see this is released under GPL. How should I go about getting any
changes back to you? I added ToggleFullscreen, PlaylistPrev and
PlaylistNext functions to wrap the native DLL VLC_FullScreen,
VLC_PlaylistPrev and VLC_PlaylistNext functions.
--[[User:MattburkeDionoea]] 17:46, 6 September 2007 (CEST)

== How about a ZIP FILE for the code?!!! ==

Why isn't there simply a zip file to download the project? This is
ridiculous! I don't really want to become a freaking VLC expert, just
add the functionality into my project, but this requires I download each
file seperately and paste into a new code file. Why?!!! What a freaking
pain.

== WTF! It doesn't even compile!!! ==

This freaking project doesn't even compile!!! There are two missing
members!!! This is the lamest waste of time I have spent in a long
time... Wikis suck, btw...

== Please read the copyright notices == I have noticed that many
companies are including the C# .NET interface in commercial applications
and disregarding the terms of the license. If you use the control in any
application, commercial or otherwise, you must make the source code to
the control available to the public. I have to laugh at companies who
want programmers to sign a "non-disclosure" agreement--programmers
should NEVER do this and programmers should always retain the copyright
to their work and grant ONLY a non-exclusive license to a company. I
think the companies using this control in their commercial applications
should be held accountable for their violating the copyright notice on
this control.

== Can I? ==

Can I be so bold as to zip up the files as a Visual Studio 2005 project
to create the DLL and upload them as a zip file here?
[[User:Benelliott]]

== Example usage ==

Hey,

Would it be possible for me to grab some sample usage of this project,
I'm looking to create a very basic app that just spawns a VLC window &
grabs timestamps from a playing DVD. There's not much info on how to use
this API & I wouldn't mind a simple example (which must exist anyway).

Got it compiling with a couple of minor tweaks btw, though I agree a zip
would have saved some time!

Thanks in advance! James

== how to draw on vlc region by c# ==

i had used this vlc interface and it woks prefectly event with local
files or streams but i need to draw small images and texts on this video
and stop double click which lead to full screen? thanks in advance

== Shitty guide ==

This guide is pretty uninformative. Can someone please come back and
finish this and explain how to integrate this into a project or
something? Also a zip file would be nice.

== License in Wiki doesn't match license in code ==

The Wiki talks about the GPL, but all the files are marked as LGPL. This
would allow commercial applications to freely link to the code as an
external library and still meet the requirements of the license.

Nevermind - the Wiki is referring to the fact that libvlc is GPL. The
interface classes are released under LGPL, but in the end if libvlc is
GPL, you're subject to that license.
