I'll be watching this as I've always used the WinCE port for my Dell
Axim x3 Windows Mobile 2003 device. Good luck ;)

I too will be keeping an eye on this project. I can't get the old port
to run at all on my WM2003SE iPaq - it just does nothing. It's a shame
really. I absolutely ''need'' a video player that does OGG Theora!
[[User:KevinLange|KevinLange]] 17:05, 31 May 2008 (CEST) (update: I got
the even more unofficial port to open, but it doesn't play videos and is
just plain "not good".)

Thank you, I'll work hard to get a working version soon :)
--[[User:Geal|Geal]] 13:56, 2 June 2008 (CEST)

== Progress? ==

Midterm evaluations have come and gone. Any progress to report?
[[User:KevinLange|KevinLange]] 21:59, 16 July 2008 (CEST)

Now the LibVLC compiles without any problem, and I'm adding plugins. I
could play some music on my phone, it's beginning to work :) For now, I
work on the interface, but I'm not really changing the look and feel.
That will be for the end of the summer. I'll soon add the video output,
and then, I may need some intensive testing :) --[[User:Geal|Geal]]
10:54, 23 July 2008 (CEST)

Anything new? It's almost final evaluation time.
[[User:KevinLange|KevinLange]] 21:16, 20 August 2008 (CEST)

I have timing issues: it doesn't play more than a few seconds. There are
recents commits to the main tree that may fix this bug, but I didn't
update my tree yet. You can see what external libs were ported on
[[Contrib_Status]]. Many others will come :) VLC on WinCE won't be
released this week, and I don't think this will be for next release. But
I'll make test binaries when this timing bug will be fixed, and then,
patches and bug reports will be welcomed :) I'm sorry I didn't finish it
in time... I'll go on contributing to VLC, so I won't drop my project
right now! --[[User:Geal|Geal]] 10:29, 26 August 2008 (CEST)

== Anything new? ==

After using the new 0.9.2 of the regular VLC, I have to ask: For the
interface, why not write one with QT? QT is available for the Pocket PC
in the form of QT Embedded. The same interface could also be used on the
Familiar port of VLC.

And while I'm here, anything new? Anything you'd like help with (this is
something I'd really like to see happen, and I have plenty of
programming experience and the tools required to help out)?
[[User:KevinLange|KevinLange]] 01:46, 21 September 2008 (CEST)

The Qt interface for WinCE could be a good idea, but I don't know
anything about Qt... Feel free to do it ;)

Nothing really new about the WinCE port: I wait for some big changes of
LibVLC to be done, to adapt my code. And I've been a bit busy with the
Windows version.

You can try to build it by reading the [[WinCECompile]] page. It can
really help me to improve the port, because I did some ugly things to
make it compile, and I don't remember everything I did :P
--[[User:Geal|Geal]] 12:30, 22 September 2008 (CEST)

== Ping? ==

So, how goes things? I notice the SoC_2008 page says this was successful
- will any binary builds be worked on (would personally love to see a
WM2003SE ARM build, but that's just me).
--[[User:KevinLange|KevinLange]] 04:35, 28 December 2008 (CET)
