== list update ==

Can't we automatically build this list by searching all the pages using
the "howto" template ? -- [[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 17:30, 20 January
2006 (CET)

: Adding the [[Template:howtoH2g2bob]] 17:53, 20 January 2006 (CET)
:Please read [[Template_talk:Howto]] and post comments there.
--[[User:Tonsofpcs|tonsofpcs]] 09:33, 21 January 2006 (CET)

== Curating this section of the wiki ==

I plan on renaming all ~70 [[:Category:How To]] pages in the next few
days; I think the wiki might benefit from being organized&nbsp;â€“
specifically; I want to cut down on duplicate articles being in
circulation, and help readers find what they're looking for on the first
try. The following is a record of what I'm doing (and will do, if my
weekend is otherwise uneventful).<br /> I'm going to borrow
[//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Article_titles Wikipedia's system]
and apply it ''to only'' these 70 articles: \* Articles should be
written in sentence case, i.e., don't capitalize the second or
subsequent words in an article title, unless the title is a proper name
\* Article titles should be clear and predictable \* Singular forms of
words are preferred The parent page will be [[VLC HowTo]], so we can
have (for example) [[VLC HowTo/Do something cool]].<br /> I hope to
merge/delete duplicate titles in this category (how did we get at least
4 separate articles regarding setting brightness/contrast alone?) and
make article titles more sensible.<br /> Hope this will be an
improvement! {{User:DoesItReallyMatter/real_sig}} 05:02, 30 October 2016
(CET)
