Announce :

Title: VideoLAN needs your help.

Text: There are many things that we would like to improve in VLC, but
that we don't, because we simply don't have enough time. That's why we
are currently looking for some help. We have identified several small
projects that prospective developers could work on. Knowledge of C
and/or C++ programming will certainly be useful, but you don't need to
be an expert, nor a video expert. Existing VLC developers will be able
to help you on these projects. You can find the list and some
instructions at http://wiki.videolan.org/index.php/Mini_Projects. We are
waiting for you !

== MCE IR partner wanted ==

Is any developer willing to start a mini-project for supporting the HID
input keys and allowing IR remotes like the MCE remotes to control VLC?
I am an experienced developer who would like to work on this. It would
speed things up greatly if someone familiar with VLC answered questions
for me. I promise to keep the number of questions small and
not-too-dumb.

P.S. If there is a forum where this request belongs please let me know.

\*I'd gladly help you. I already had some sample code to get remote
control events under windows but i never really got to integerate it in
VLC (i'm not really good at Windows related coding). Feel free to
contact me on IRC (#videolan on Freenode) or in the forums
(http://forum.videolan.org , use the private message function).
[[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 19:06, 17 November 2006 (CET)

\*Hey! I have a Windows Media Center (WMC) IR Remote Control, running on
XP Pro SP2, and would like to get this working with VLC,
(http://forum.videolan.org , use the private message function and find
"some1"). I dont know much C tho! [[User:some1|some1]] 11:53, 01 July
2007.

== Help on getting started == Hello. I want to get started on one of
these projects (preferably one of the simple bugfixes), but I'm not sure
where I should start. Should I just download the current source and
start hacking away? Also, is there a way to comment on existing tickets?
I don't see any way to. [[User:Zootboy|Zootboy]] 03:35, 10 May 2009
(CEST)

: You can comment on trac tickets. Create a trac account and ask on IRC
for your account to be validated. : You can then compile your VLC (see
[[Developers_Corner]], [[Git]], etc) and submit patches on vlc-devel@
--[[User:Thannoy|Thannoy]] 10:53, 11 May 2009 (CEST)
