== Strategy for main page == The main page is very busy. Intimidating
for the early contributor. I suggest having a newbie page as an early
link or making the main page less busy. For example you can get rid of
or move done the talk about deprecated projects. Also the page is very
similar to the main wiki intro page. One might get confused which one
they are on. [[User:Daniel.Cardenas|Daniel.Cardenas]] 00:59, 22 April
2007 (CEST)

== Streaming Profiles ==

The idea is to make streaming very easy, and yet powerful by using
parametrable profiles. These could be used either by the graphical
interfaces or through HTTP/command line interfaces. This section will
document the design as it progresses.

The various steps in the process will be: - Identification of the
feature set - Transforming the features into requirements - Developing
the Analysis Model - Developing the Design Model

The Feature-based Object-Orieted Methodology (FOOM)
[http://www.tierney.ca/patrick/thesis/FOOM_Thesis_PTierney.pdf], an
extension of the Unified Software Process will be followed.

== Broken link ==

Hi! The link "Translation information and stats" in the Code VLC box is
broken.

Best Regards, --[[User:Materthron|materthron]] 18:46, 22 February 2008
(CET) :{{Fixed}}

= Translation of the Developers Corner = I translated the Developers
Corner: [[VLC Developers Corner/de]]

McLP

== How to Rotate/Transform Video on-the-fly in VLC? ==

Hi,

I am working on GUI of VLC Player for WPF in C#. I want to add an option
for end user to rotate/transform video to specific angle on-the-fly.

I was able to rotate at initialization time with following Video filter.
--video-filter=rotate {angle=180}

Can you please let me know your LibVLC API used to rotate/transform
video on-the-fly?

Thanks,

Waheed

== How to Rotate/Transform Video on-the-fly in VLC? ==

Hi,

I am working on GUI of VLC Player for WPF in C#. I want to add an option
for end user to rotate/transform video to specific angle on-the-fly.

I was able to rotate at initialization time with following Video filter.
--video-filter=rotate {angle=180}

Can you please let me know your LibVLC API used to rotate/transform
video on-the-fly?

Thanks,

Waheed

== VLC updation for iOS version ==

<big>I have few changes which can be done in VLC iOS version</big>

I am from non Programming background, but very much interested in using
computer or tablet apps recently I have downloaded VLC on my iOS device
and loving it. I have suggestion to make to improve the app to make it
more user friendly. I am not sure if this is the right page where I
should mention. if not then please direct me to that link where I can
put my suggestions to all big developers

thanks,

== VLC Android: deinterlace option ==

Can they add a deinterlace option to VLCs Android player? Thanks!
