rst/Template-Sandbox_header.rst, before:

<div style="border:#fc0 solid medium; padding:0.3em 0.5em;"> <span
style="color:#cf7606;">[[\ File:Sandbox -
OpenClipart.pngrightlink=]]<big><big>'''Edit this
page'''</big></big></span> \__NOTOC_\_ \__NOEDITSECTION_\_ This
"sandbox" page allows you to carry out experiments. Please feel free to
try out your skills at [[VideoLAN Wiki:Syntaxthis introduction]] or the
[[wikipedia:Wikipedia:Tutorialaction=edit}} click here]'''</span> or
''edit'' at the top of the page, make your changes in the dialog box,
and click the ''Save page'' button when you are finished.<br /> Please
do not add material that is in any way offensive, that is copyrighted,
or that is at all libelous.

----''Content added here will not stay permanently; this page is cleared
regularly. <span class="plainlinks">
[{{fullurl:Sandbox|oldid=61459&action=edit&summary=Reset&minor=yes}}
Click here to reset the sandbox.]</span>'' </div>
<includeonly>[[Category:Wiki maintenance]]</includeonly><noinclude>
==Usage== The header found on the [[Sandbox]] page.

[[Category:Templates]] </noinclude>

Commit message:

No text wrapping for rST convertion
Minor typo => BIG problems

rst/Template-Sandbox_header.rst, after:

.. raw:: html

   <div style="border:#fc0 solid medium; padding:0.3em 0.5em;">

| \ |Sandbox_-_OpenClipart.png|\ \ **Edit this page**\  \__NOTOC_\_ \__NOEDITSECTION_\_ This "sandbox" page allows you to carry out experiments. Please feel free to try out your skills at `formatting <VideoLAN_Wiki:Syntax>`__ here.
| If you want to learn more about how to edit a wiki, please read `this introduction <wikipedia:Help:Editing>`__ or the `tutorial at Wikipedia <wikipedia:Wikipedia:Tutorial>`__.
| To edit, \ **[ click here]**\  or *edit* at the top of the page, make your changes in the dialog box, and click the *Save page* button when you are finished.
| Please do not add material that is in any way offensive, that is copyrighted, or that is at all libelous.

--------------

*Content added here will not stay permanently; this page is cleared regularly. [ Click here to reset the sandbox.]*

.. raw:: html

   </div>

Usage
-----

The header found on the `Sandbox <Sandbox>`__ page.

`Category:Wiki maintenance <Category:Wiki_maintenance>`__ `Category:Templates <Category:Templates>`__

.. |Sandbox_-_OpenClipart.png| image:: Sandbox_-_OpenClipart.png
   :width: 120px
