== The thing ==

Hello! I'd like to suggest [[User:The thingcontributions]] have lots of
reverts to previous versions (ie, spam removed), and this task is a
million times easier with the ability to rollback pages. His user page
is a bit strange, but other than that he's doing a great job.
--[[User:H2g2bobThe thing]] 18:40, 28 May 2006 (CEST) ::Done :) Thanks
for the help -- [[User:DionoeaThe thing]] 20:40, 3 June 2006 (CEST)

== Google map ==

I know you posted ages ago (sorry, was doing my dissertation like a
crazy fool over easter) but if you still want to add me to Google map
thing, I'm at: :&lt;marker username="h2g2bob" fullname="David Batley"
location="Exeter, UK" blurb="" lat="50.749056" lon="-3.530045"
title="Developer"/&gt; I can't edit /team/team.xml myself - no SVN
access :( It's interesting to see how many Europeans there are. Plus
Xtophe is just (well 100km) down the road - how cool!
--[[User:H2g2bobDionoea]] 18:05, 30 April 2007 (CEST)

== demux ==

Hi,

On [[Demuxdump]] the following example is given :

   vlc <nowiki>http://example.org/shoutcast.mp3\ </nowiki> :demux=dump
   :demuxdump-file=output.mp3

You say that the ":" syntax is correct (by the way I didn't get anything
out of you explantion in the Edit page). If it is, then can you explain
to me why this actually does ''not'' work on my mac:

   vlc <nowiki>http://213.205.96.91:9915\ </nowiki> :demux=dump
   :demuxdump-file=output.mp3

giving the following errors:

[00000278] access_http access: Raw-audio server found, mp3 demuxer
selected<br> [00000281] demuxdump demuxer: dumping raw stream to file
\`/Volumes/Proton/output.mp3'<br> [00000281] demuxdump demuxer: closing
/Volumes/Proton/output.mp3 (0 Kbytes dumped)<br> libdvdnav: Using dvdnav
version 0.2.0cvs from http://dvd.sf.net\ <br> libdvdread: Using
libdvdcss version 1.2.9 for DVD access<br> libdvdread: Can't stat
demuxdump-file=output.mp3<br> No such file or directory<br> libdvdnav:
vm: failed to open/read the DVD<br> [00000283] main input error: no
suitable access module for \`:demuxdump-file=output.mp3'<br> [00000271]
main playlist: nothing to play<br>

while this one works:

   vlc <nowiki>http://213.205.96.91:9915\ </nowiki> --demux=dump
   --demuxdump-file=output.mp3

Thanks.

== Editing Guidelines ==

Hi Dionea! Sorry for that one. I just oversaw the Editing Guidelines. As
I've got some spare time the next month, I'd love to contribute to VLC.
As I'm (by now) not that good a coder, I thought I'd start with the wiki
(which is a rather easy field). So, are there any tasks which are of
high priority? Also, as I'm not that very familiar with the inner
workings VLC, is there any particular developer I can contact when I
stumble upon something I don't understand (j-b?)?

Regards, Salut, --[[User:Materthron|materthron]] 14:24, 28 January 2008
(CET)

:Hello, :You should try hanging out on the #videolan IRC channel on
Freenode. People there will be able to give you ideas. Contributions can
be source code, but we'd also be really interested if you feel like
writing (or at least help writing) some documentation. Depending on what
you want to work on, different people will be able to help ... I can't
name any universal VLC guru as none exists (well ... none of the folks
that are on IRC). :Cheers, [[User:Dionoea|Dionoea]] 10:31, 31 January
2008 (CET)

==Need help in order to contribute== Hello, I a French student and I
want to contribute to VLC project. I have some knowledge in C and C++
development. So, I need somebody to help me and give me some tasks I can
do. Have a nice day ^^. [[User:Binnette|Binnette]] 16:42, 19 October
2008 (CEST)
