== General presentation ==

Hi, my name is '''André Weber'''.

Who I'am? I'am a german engineer. I have studied on a 'University of
cooperative education' (here http://www.ba-glauchau.de/) in the years
from 1997 - 2000, and finished as "Dipl. Ing. (BA)".

Currently I work as software development engineer for a medium size
company in germany, there I'am do database design, integration of
geographic information systems, or new geodatasources and a lot of
software architecture stuff.

In my sparetime - I'am continue software development and coding - for
different open source software / open hardware projects. \* VideoLAN \*
AtmoLight see here http://www.vdr-wiki.de/wiki/index.php/AtmoWin \*
Y.A.R.D. (Yet Another Remote Device) see here
http://wiki.htpc-news.de/wiki/index.php?title=Y.A.R.D. (sorry that the
pages are only in german...:) if you are interested to translate them...
feel free :-) you are welcome)

For these projects and my profession I have learned serveral coding
languages - so I have skills in: \* C / C++ \* x86 ASM \* Java \* µC ASM
from Microchip \* and much Delphi (Object Pascal)

===My way to VideoLAN coding?=== In October 2007 I came in touch with
VideoLAN for coding a videofilter to support the AtmoLight hardware.
After submitting serveral smaller patches, or spotting problems - I got
the privilege to get a full member of the VideoLAN team - since then
I'am working mostly on Windows related problems of VideoLAN I have no
special working area - so I dived into audio stuff (waveout, spdif
issues), DirectShow Capture (choosing devices and settings) and some QT
stuff for the new Gui... and fixed some smaller other bugs.

==Contacts== on IRC #videolan I'am to reach as "atmo" or "atmo|wrk"

on the videolan forums I'am "atmo" too.

or via mail: atmo (at) videolan (d0t) org.
