'''VideoLan VideoConference''' (VLVC) is a plugin for the [[VLC media
player]].It adds videoconferencing functions, it can connect from 2 to
10 people so that they can see and hear each others with the help of a
computer and a webcam. This software is free and is supported on
[[Windows]], [[Linux]] and [[Mac OS]]. It can be downloaded on the
Internet and it aims to be used by private individuals and professionals
as well.

It received good reviews
[http://forums.whirlpool.net.au/forum-replies-archive.cfm/1081016.html].

==Modes== VLVC will allow four kinds of videoconferencing modes, thus
covering most of the users' needs. \* Chatroom mode : All users can hear
and see each others, everybody can speak freely. \* Conference mode :
This mode has one single user, the server, who transmits his sound and
video streams to all other users. In other words, he is the only one who
can be heard and seen. \* Amphitheatre mode : This mode is still under
development. It is an advanced version of the Conference mode that
allows the administrator (the server) to grant and revoke the right of
speech to one single user at a time. \* Meeting mode : This mode is
under development too. It is similar to the Amphitheatre mode, but it
can grant and revoke the rights of speech to multiple users at a time.

==The team== The project was created in 2003 by a group of students of
Epitech, it was then taken over in 2005. Considering the good results of
VLVC as a school project, new students have joined the team to take over
the work.

===Founders of the project=== \* Arnaud Deredec : Former project leader
\* Julien Arnaud : Former communication supervisor \* Julien Cupillard :
Former development supervisor \* Florian Gustin : Former member in
charge of external relationships \* Guillaume Martin : Former system
administrator \* Floren Nguyen : Former technical developer \* Thomas
Delon : Project leader \* Romain Lavocat : Communication supervisor \*
William Lienard : Development supervisor \* Julien Passeri : Member in
charge of external relationships \* Sylvestre Ho Tam Chay : Technical
developer \* David Yu : Technical developer \* Mathavarajan Sugumaran :
Technical developer

\*Current status of this project is unknown. There appears to be some
code and documentation here [http://sourceforge.net/projects/vlvc/]
[http://vlvc.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/vlvc/]. Last work apparently
done in 2007. Note that the downloadable stuff seems based on a more
recent SVN version than their repository does?

==See also ==

-  [[VideoLAN]]
-  [[VLC media player]]

In general, a single instance of VLC can "play" or "transcode" several
streams at once, just not to the same window.

[[VLM]] (a stream scheduler) within VLC, can help with that, as well as
the telnet and web interfaces.

More things that might help for playing multiple streams at once:

[[Mosaic]]

VLC can also "add" (combine) streams iff the encoding and bitrates of
the two streams match, using VLC "slave input" You could theoretically
use this to combine video with a separate audio file, or possibly
"overlay" a video with audio, or combine two audio files together.
Haven't tried it though.

[[Category:VLC plugins]]
