{{See also|Documentation:EditingGuidelines}} Please sign your name on
talk pages with four tildes: <code><nowiki>~~~~</nowiki></code>. It will
automatically expand to your username and date.

== The basics == :''Note: You can practice editing at the [[Sandbox]]
whenever you like.''

This wiki uses something called "wikimarkup", a way to include plain
text on a page and modify how it looks. This is similar to both
Wikipedia's markup and <abbr title="HyperText Markup
Language">HTML</abbr>.<br /> Commands to modify plain text include: \*
"tags" around words, for example: *: <code><nowiki><big>example
text</big></nowiki></code> → <big>example text</big>*:
<code><nowiki><big><big>example text</big></big></nowiki></code> →
<big><big>example text</big></big> *:
<code><nowiki><big><big><big>example
text</big></big></big></nowiki></code> → <big><big><big>example
text</big></big></big>*: <code><nowiki><small>example
text</small></nowiki></code> → <small>example text</small> *:
<code><nowiki><code>example text</code></nowiki></code> → <code>example
text</code>* "templates" (common snippets of formatting or often-used
text), for example: *: {{tl|VLC}} → {{VLC}}*: {{tlSandbox
page]]</nowiki></code> → [[Sandbox16px]]</nowiki></code> → [[File:VLC -
icon.png|16px]] Single lines <em>are ignored by the software</em>. To
add a line break, use <code><nowiki><br /></nowiki></code> or enter two
newlines in the wikitext.

Another important feature is the page layout: \* making lists: simply
start a line with *. For an indentation, use.* making tables: better
explained [//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Table at Wikipedia] \* using
page headings to create sections: use pairs of equal signs around text,
starting at two \* To show code as pre-formatted text, insert a blank
space at the beginning of each line or wrap in pre tags as
<code><nowiki><pre>example text</pre></nowiki></code>: example text

If you have a minute, learn the basics of editing: a
[//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Cheatsheet one-page summary] and
[//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Wikitext an extensive manual] are
available at the English Wikipedia.<br /> If you want to "dive right
in", find the ''Edit Toolbar'' (directly above the edit box) and use the
buttons and the dropdown help for assistance.

== Calling attention to pages == It's understood that a wiki will
eventually become outdated, and needs to stay up-to-date. You can help
by: \* Adding {{tlStub}} at the bottom of a page to show that it needs
work \* Adding {{tlOutdated}} to the bottom of out-of-date pages \*
Adding {{tlfull list]])

== Further reading == \* [//www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Editing
MediaWiki exhaustive reference guide]

[[Category:VideoLAN Wiki]]
