{{See alsoalt=right]] \__NOTOC_\_ Below are some handy guides for using
{{VLC}}

=== Playing Video and Audio ===

;How to...

*[[What can vlc do#How_to_enable.2Fuse_subtitles|Use
Subtitles]]*:Playing movies with subtitles *[[How to Use a Capture
Card|Use a Capture Card]]*:This explains how to watch TV or get video
from your capture card. *[[What can VLC do?#Disk_image|Play DVDs and
Disks from the image file]]*:This explains how to use movies encoded
onto an ISO file.

=== Adjusting Settings ===

;How to...

*[[VLC HowTo/Adjust image settings|Adjust image settings]]*: This
explains how to adjust video image settings: hue, brightness, contrast,
saturation, and gamma *[[VLC HowTo/Change the aspect ratio|Change the
aspect ratio]]*\ [[CropHow to play multiple instances]]

===Remote Control for VLC=== ;How to... \* [[Control VLC via a browser]]
*: This explains how to use the HTTP [[interface]]* [[Control VLC via a
widget]] on the Mac desktop \* [[Control VLC from an iPhone]] \*
[[Control VLC from an Android Phone]] \* [[Control VLC from a webOS
phone]] \*: Formerly known as Palm webOS

===Transcoding and Streaming=== ;How to... \* [[iPod Video Conversion
GuidePlay videos on your Play-Yan Micro]] *: This explains how to
convert your videos so they play on your Play-Yan Micro.* [[Play_on_Xbox
Play video on your Zune]] *: This explains how to convert your videos so
they play on your Zune.* [[Transcode_WM_to_Mov_or_MP4 Streaming from a
webcam to an ActiveX embedded object page]] \* [[How_to_add_a_logo \|
Add a logo on your videos]] \* [[Mosaic\| Create a Mosaic]] *: This
explains how to set up a mosaic from a few streams like a TV portal.*
[[How to DBox|Set up Video on Demand on a Dreambox]] \* [[How to Batch
Encode]] *: This explains how to set up a batch transcode with all files
in a directory of a certain file extension being transcoded to a
specified format.* [[Transcode]] *: This explains converting
(transcoding) a file.* [[How to merge and transcode multiple videos]] *:
This explains how to take several source videos and merge then transcode
resulting in a single file output.* [[Extract audio from a file]] *:
This explains how to extract the audio track from a file.* [[Extract
audio]] *: This explains how to extract the audio track from a DVD.*
[[Rip a DVD]] \*: This explains how to rip a DVD using VLC

===Using VLC in other Applications=== ;How to... \* [[ActiveX]] *:
Specification for ActiveX control* [[LibVLC|Use VLC's External API]] *:
Information for using libvlc* [[Use in Media Center]] \* [[GWT]] \*:
Google WebToolkit

===Other Stuff=== ;How to... \* [[How to Create a DVDUse the ActiveX
control with Borland's Delphi]] *: Using the VLC ActiveX plug-in in your
programs* [[ActiveX/HTMLIntegrate ActiveX/Mozilla on your webpage]] \*
[[Change the brightness or contrast of a video|Change a video]] *: This
explains how to edit a video and save the changes* [[How to create
thumbnails]] \* [[How to Use Lirc]] \* [[How to shut down computer]]
when VLC playback is over... \* [[How to make VLC the default player]]
\* [[How to use VLC for transcription in linux]]

[[Category:How To|*]]
