{{Example code}} {{howto|Switch off your computer automatically, when
VLC has finished playing a file}}

== General idea == It is not a feature included in {{VLC}} but small
scripts can do it for you upon quitting VLC.

== Quitting VLC == {{VLC}} can exit once all items have finished
playing, this can done by enabling '''Play and exit''' in the Playlist
section under [[Preferences]]

[[File:Play and exit.gif]]

Alternatively, you can quit {{VLC}} after playback is finished, by
adding the following to the end of the playlist: <pre>vlc://quit</pre>

== Shutdown == === Windows === ==== Bat File ==== 1.) Create a new file
with extension .BAT [use notepad] and paste in the contents from below.
For use multi select file, juste made and forget your list... :) enjoy :
<syntaxhighlight lang="winbatch"> START /WAIT C:"Program
Files"VideoLANVLCvlc.exe %\* vlc://quit shutdown -s -t 60
</syntaxhighlight>

2.) Use VLC to create/save playlist with desired content.

3.) Drag saved playlist icon on top of .bat file

The batch file will launch VLC and load the playlist. It will wait for
the playlist to finish playing VLC will quit Batch will continue
processing and system will be shutdown in 60 sec.'s.

==== VBScript ==== Make a .vbs file, copy in the code below and save.
Drag and drop files onto the script file or double click the script to
start it up. Supports avi, mp4, mov, wmv and 3gp files.

Note: Change line 6 to TRUE to force quit all other applications.

[[File:VLC Auto Shutdown.PNG]]

<syntaxhighlight lang="vb" line> 'By eyehawk78, posted on
http://forum.videolan.org/viewtopic.php?f=16&t=70391

Dim oShell, FSO, FileData, vlc_path, video_dir, user, programs Dim
files, seconds

force_shutdown = FALSE 'Set to true to force quit all other applications
set to false otherwise

Function SelectFile()
   Set file = CreateObject("UserAccounts.CommonDialog") file.Filter =
   "Video Files (avi, mp4, mov, wmv,
   3gp)\|\ *.avi;*.mp4;*.mov;*.wmv;*.3gp;" file.FilterIndex = 1
   file.InitialDir = video_dir InitFSO = file.ShowOpen

   If InitFSO = True Then
      SelectFile = file.FileName

   Else
      WScript.Quit

   End If

End Function

Sub InputError(ErrorString)
   Wscript.Echo ErrorString Wscript.Quit

End Sub

files = ""

Set FSO = CreateObject("Scripting.FileSystemObject") Set oShell =
CreateObject("WScript.Shell")

If Wscript.Arguments.Count > 0 Then
   For Each FileData In Wscript.Arguments
      Set FileInfo = FSO.GetFile(FileData) If InStr(FileInfo.Type,
      ".avi") or InStr(FileInfo.Type, ".mp4") or InStr(FileInfo.Type,
      ".mov") or InStr(FileInfo.Type, ".wmv") or InStr(FileInfo.Type,
      ".3gp") Then files = files & " " & CHR(34) & FileData & CHR(34)
      Else InputError("File " & CHR(34) & FileInfo.Name & CHR(34) & "
      has an unrecognised file type - Must be of type .avi, .mp4, .mov,
      .wmv or .3gp") End If

   Next

Else
   user = oShell.ExpandEnvironmentStrings("%USERPROFILE%") video_dir =
   oShell.ExpandEnvironmentStrings("%VLC_SHUTDOWN_VIDEOS_DIRECTORY%")

   'If this if first run, we must save where the default video directory
   is

   If video_dir = "%VLC_SHUTDOWN_VIDEOS_DIRECTORY%" Then
      video_dir = InputBox("Please input the directory where your Videos
      are kept." & vbcrlf & vbNewLine & "E.g. C:Documents and
      SettingsUser NameMy DocumentsMy Videos", "First Run", user) If
      video_dir <> "" Then strComputer = "." Set objWMIService =
      GetObject("winmgmts:\" & strComputer & "rootcimv2")

         Set objVariable =
         objWMIService.Get("Win32_Environment").\ `SpawnInstance <>`__

         objVariable.Name = "VLC_SHUTDOWN_VIDEOS_DIRECTORY"
         objVariable.UserName = "<System>" objVariable.VariableValue =
         video_dir `objVariable.Put <>`__

      Else
         WScript.Quit

      End If

   End If

   answer = 6

   'Loop while user wishes to add more files to playlist

   Do While answer = 6
      files = files & " " & CHR(34) & SelectFile() & CHR(34) answer =
      MsgBox("Would you like to add another file to the playlist?", 3,
      "Continue?")

   Loop

   If answer = 2 Then
      WScript.Quit

   End If

End If

'If this if first run, we must save where the default VLC directory is

programs = oShell.ExpandEnvironmentStrings("%PROGRAMFILES%") vlc_path =
oShell.ExpandEnvironmentStrings("%VLC_SHUTDOWN_VLC_LOCATION%")

If vlc_path = "%VLC_SHUTDOWN_VLC_LOCATION%" Then
   vlc_path = InputBox("Please input the directory where VLC program
   file is kept." & vbcrlf & vbNewLine & "E.g. C:Program
   FilesVideoLANVLC", "First Run", programs)

   If vlc_path <> "" Then
      strComputer = "." Set objWMIService = GetObject("winmgmts:\" &
      strComputer & "rootcimv2")

      Set objVariable =
      objWMIService.Get("Win32_Environment").\ `SpawnInstance <>`__

      objVariable.Name = "VLC_SHUTDOWN_VLC_LOCATION"
      objVariable.UserName = "<System>" objVariable.VariableValue =
      vlc_path `objVariable.Put <>`__

   Else
      WScript.Quit

   End If

End If

vlc_path = CHR(34) & vlc_path & "vlc.exe" & CHR(34) 'VLC directory
location

seconds = InputBox("Please enter the number of seconds the system should
delay before commencing shutdown", "Enter Number of Seconds", "5") If
seconds <> "" Then If IsNumeric(seconds) And seconds > 0 Then

   oShell.Run vlc_path & " " & files & " vlc://quit", 1, TRUE 'Execute
   shutdown command If force_shutdown Then oShell.Run "shutdown -s -f -t
   " & Round(seconds) & " -c " & CHR(34) & "Automatic Shutdown: Playlist
   Complete" & CHR(34) Else oShell.Run "shutdown -s -t " &
   Round(seconds) & " -c " & CHR(34) & "Automatic Shutdown: Playlist
   Complete" & CHR(34) End If

..

   Else
      InputError("Input not a number or negative")

   End If

End If Wscript.Quit </syntaxhighlight>

=== Linux === ==== Make a .sh ==== Create and execute a bash script with
the following: <syntaxhighlight lang="bash"> #! /bin/sh

vlc && shutdown -h now </syntaxhighlight> With '''&&''', figuratively
speaking if it returns something other than "success" it doesn't perform
the next command in the line.

===== Ubuntu 11.04 onwards / ConsoleKit based systems ===== You are able
to shutdown without requiring sudo / root privileges by using
dbus-send[http://askubuntu.com/questions/49553/how-to-give-shutdown-privileges-to-a-user]

<syntaxhighlight lang="bash"> #! /bin/sh

vlc && dbus-send --system --print-reply
--dest=org.freedesktop.ConsoleKit /org/freedesktop/ConsoleKit/Manager
org.freedesktop.ConsoleKit.Manager.Stop </syntaxhighlight>

===== Older Ubuntu versions / HAL based systems ===== <syntaxhighlight
lang="bash"> #! /bin/sh

vlc && dbus-send --system --print-reply --dest=org.freedesktop.Hal
/org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/computer
org.freedesktop.Hal.Device.SystemPowerManagement.Shutdown
</syntaxhighlight>
