{{howto|make a thumbnail}} ==How to create a thumbnail from a video==
With new VLC versions (VLC 1.1.0 and above), the thumbnails are
generated with scene video filter

<pre>vlc C:videotoprocess.mp4 --rate=1 --video-filter=scene --vout=dummy
--start-time=10 --stop-time=11 --scene-format=png --scene-ratio=24
--scene-prefix=snap --scene-path=C:pathforsnapshotsvlc://quit</pre>

If you want to get rid of the sound you can add "--aout=dummy" next to
"--vout=dummy".

For older VLC versions (1.0.0 and below) the same can be done with image
output module

<pre>vlc C:videotoprocess.mp4 -V image --start-time 0 --stop-time 1
--image-out-format jpg --image-out-ratio 24 --image-out-prefix snap
vlc://quit</pre> ===What it does:===

When {{VLC}} runs it 'plays' the video for one second without actually
showing the video on screen, and then quits, leaving us with a file
named 'snap000000.jpg', containing an image of the first frame of the
video.

===How it works:===

First select the image output with: '''-V image''' or '''--vout
image'''.

Next set the interval (in seconds) you want an image from with:
'''--start-time 0 --stop-time 1''' In my example the first second of the
video. In that case you could omit the parameter --start-time. If you
want an image from the 5th second fill in: '''--start-time 5 --stop-time
6'''

The image format will be .jpg because i provided: '''--image-out-format
jpg'''. You could specify '''--image-out-format png''' to get a
.png-image instead.

'''--image-out-ratio 24''' specifies we want one image out of 24. In my
case the video contains 24 images per second so this is the right value.
If your video has more images per seconds you should increase this value
to prevend you get more images as one. If the number is too high (for
example 500) it still produces only one image, so the actual value is
not so important as long as it is higher then the images per second.

'''--image-out-prefix snap''' specifies the filename must start with
'snap'. You can prefix with a path, for example c:snap and resulting
images will be created there.

You can specify '''--image-out-replace'''. In that case Vlc produces the
file 'snap.jpg'. This will prevent VLC from creating multiple images.

'''test.mpg''' specifies the video to play and finally '''vlc://quit'''
forces vlc to quit when ready.

===Creating a contact sheet===

Although VLC does not provide an option for creating a contact sheet,
one possible solution is to use the [http://www.imagemagick.org
ImageMagick] 'montage' tool. Taking the images generated by VLC, run the
following command:

   montage --tile \*.jpg montage.jpg

For more on the tool you can check the associated
[http://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/montage/ montage help page].
