{{howto|To use {{VLC}} with an infra red remote control on Linux}}

<div class="widebox">'''Note:''' This article is about advanced lirc
usage with VLC. For basic stuff please see
[[Documentation:Modules/lirc]].</div>

The aim is to have your remote behave the same way as for a television
remote: program +/-, volume +/-, jump to position 3 when button 3 is
pressed,...

Build-in lirc commands are only for basic control in the movie-playing
mode, but I need to use other commands from [[RC Interface]] - mainly
"goto x" function. So the goal was to be able to use goto function with
lirc.

== VLC == Use a VLC version with lirc enabled.

=== Start-Up Script === <syntaxhighlight lang="bash"> #start/stop script
for lircd+vlc for Kubuntu 6.10 start() { echo "Starting lirc support..."
sudo setserial /dev/ttyS0 uart none #serial port down sudo
/sbin/modprobe lirc_serial #load module sudo /sbin/modprobe lirc_dev
#load module sudo /usr/local/sbin/lircd --driver=default
--device=/dev/lirc0 --output=/dev/lircd --pidfile=/var/run/lircd.pid
--listen #run lirc daemon sudo chmod 666 /dev/lircd #access sudo irexec
-d #daemon to pass ir commands }

stop() {
   echo "Stoping lirc support..." sudo /usr/bin/killall -w lircd #kill
   lirc daemon sudo /sbin/rmmod lirc_serial #unload module sudo
   /sbin/rmmod lirc_dev #unload module sudo setserial /dev/ttyS0 uart
   16550A #serial port up

}

restart() {
   stop sleep 2 start

}

case "$1" in 'start') start ;; 'stop') stop ;; 'restart') restart ;; \*)
echo "usage $0 startrestart" esac exit 0 </syntaxhighlight>

=== Scripts === It is necessary to run vlc with rc interface to use all
the supported commands (see vlc help). I use this script to run VLC with
rc intf. Lircd is loaded and later unloaded. I have a desktop shortcut
icon and I had to change properties of the shortcut to run in terminal.
The other option is <code>vlc --fake-tty</code> option, but this uses
100 % CPU <span title="sad face">:-(</span>

<syntaxhighlight lang="bash"> #/bin/bash /home/ondra/.vlc/ovladac.sh
start vlc -I rc --rc-host localhost:12345 /home/ondra/playlist.m3u
/home/ondra/.vlc/ovladac.sh stop </syntaxhighlight>

I use irexec to pass commands to VLC rc intf. Commands can be passed
with netcat: <code>echo "vlc_rc_command" \| netcat localhost 12345 -q
1</code> (q means quit after 1 s). Commands are written in scripts,
which are executed with irexec:

Here is a script, which is executed when remote button 1 is pressed. The
others are similar.

   {{$}} cat play1.sh

<syntaxhighlight lang="bash"> #!/bin/bash echo "goto 0" \| netcat
localhost 12345 -q 1 </syntaxhighlight>

== .lircrc == :''See also: {{VLCSourceFilel=An example .lircrc file}}
included with VLC viewable online; it is not part of this guide but it
may be more up-to-date'' The last part of the .lircrc file.

There are defined actions for all requested buttons. '''irexec'''
executes concerned shell script.

<syntaxhighlight lang="bash"> # remote numbers begin prog = irexec
button = 1 config = /home/ondra/.vlc/play1.sh &n end

begin
   prog = irexec button = 2 config = /home/ondra/.vlc/play2.sh &n

end

begin
   prog = irexec button = 3 config = /home/ondra/.vlc/play3.sh &n

end

begin
   prog = irexec button = 4 config = /home/ondra/.vlc/play4.sh &n

end

begin
   prog = irexec button = 5 config = /home/ondra/.vlc/play5.sh &n

end

begin
   prog = irexec button = 6 config = /home/ondra/.vlc/play6.sh &n

end

begin
   prog = irexec button = 7 config = /home/ondra/.vlc/play7.sh &n

end

begin
   prog = irexec button = 8 config = /home/ondra/.vlc/play8.sh &n

end

begin
   prog = irexec button = 9 config = /home/ondra/.vlc/play9.sh &n

end

begin
   prog = irexec button = 0 config = /home/ondra/.vlc/play0.sh &n

end begin prog = irexec button = Menu config = /home/ondra/.vlc/pause.sh
&n end </syntaxhighlight>

This is the complete list of supported keys in VLC 0.8.6: <pre>
Fullscreen -> key-toggle-fullscreen Play/Pause -> key-play-pause Pause
only -> key-pause Play only -> key-play Faster -> key-faster Slower ->
key-slower Next -> key-next Previous -> key-prev Stop -> key-stop
Position -> key-position Very short backwards jump ->
key-jump-extrashort Very short forward jump -> key-jump+extrashort Short
backwards jump -> key-jump-short Short forward jump -> key-jump+short
Medium backwards jump -> key-jump-medium Medium forward jump ->
key-jump+medium Long backwards jump -> key-jump-long Long forward jump
-> key-jump+long Activate -> key-nav-activate Navigate up -> key-nav-up
Navigate down -> key-nav-down Navigate left -> key-nav-left Navigate
right -> key-nav-right Go to the DVD menu -> key-disc-menu Select
previous DVD title -> key-title-prev Select next DVD title ->
key-title-next Select prev DVD chapter -> key-chapter-prev Select next
DVD chapter -> key-chapter-next Quit -> key-quit Volume up -> key-vol-up
Volume down -> key-vol-down Mute -> key-vol-mute Subtitle delay up ->
key-subdelay-up Subtitle delay down -> key-subdelay-down Audio delay up
-> key-audiodelay-up Audio delay down -> key-audiodelay-down Cycle audio
track -> key-audio-track Cycle subtitle track -> key-subtitle-track
Cycle source aspect ratio -> key-aspect-ratio Cycle video crop ->
key-crop Cycle deinterlace modes -> key-deinterlace Show interface ->
key-intf-show Hide interface -> key-intf-hide Take video snapshot ->
key-snapshot Go back in browsing history -> key-history-back Go forward
in browsing history -> key-history-forward Record -> key-record Dump ->
key-dump Crop one pixel from the top of the video -> key-crop-top Uncrop
one pixel from the top of the video -> key-uncrop-top Crop one pixel
from the left of the video -> key-crop-left Uncrop one pixel from the
left of the video -> key-uncrop-left Crop one pixel from the bottom of
the video -> key-crop-bottom Uncrop one pixel from the bottom of the
video -> key-uncrop-bottom Crop one pixel from the right of the video ->
key-crop-right Uncrop one pixel from the right of the video ->
key-uncrop-right Set playlist bookmark 1 -> key-set-bookmark1 Set
playlist bookmark 2 -> key-set-bookmark2 Set playlist bookmark 3 ->
key-set-bookmark3 Set playlist bookmark 4 -> key-set-bookmark4 Set
playlist bookmark 5 -> key-set-bookmark5 Set playlist bookmark 6 ->
key-set-bookmark6 Set playlist bookmark 7 -> key-set-bookmark7 Set
playlist bookmark 8 -> key-set-bookmark8 Set playlist bookmark 9 ->
key-set-bookmark9 Set playlist bookmark 10 -> key-set-bookmark10 Play
playlist bookmark 1 -> key-play-bookmark1 Play playlist bookmark 2 ->
key-play-bookmark2 Play playlist bookmark 3 -> key-play-bookmark3 Play
playlist bookmark 4 -> key-play-bookmark4 Play playlist bookmark 5 ->
key-play-bookmark5 Play playlist bookmark 6 -> key-play-bookmark6 Play
playlist bookmark 7 -> key-play-bookmark7 Play playlist bookmark 8 ->
key-play-bookmark8 Play playlist bookmark 9 -> key-play-bookmark9 Play
playlist bookmark 10 -> key-play-bookmark10 </pre>

Can be extracted using this command:
   {{$}} vlc -H --advanced 2>&1 \|sed -n '/--key/ {s/^*--//; s/^(.*)
   <[^>]*>*\ (.*)$/2 -> 1/; h}; /^.*\ [^ ].\ *-> key/ p; /^ -> key/ { n;
   s/^[ tn]*//M; G; s/n//; p}'

== Version == This has been written by [User:J-b] using Ond≈ôej Kuda's
HowTo.

== See also== \* [http://forum.videolan.org/viewtopic.php?t=30671
Original post on VideoLAN forum] \*
[http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_LIRC#Using_LIRC_with_VLC_media_player
Gentoo Wiki's HowTo] \*
[http://www.natur.cuni.cz/~kuda/howtos/vlc_lirc.html Enhanced VLC lirc
remote control]

[[Category:Control VLC]] [[Category:GNU/Linux]]
