<div style="width:820px;border: 1px solid #ffc9c9> {{vlc_MacOS_toc}}
<div style="padding: .4em .9em .9em">

== The preferences menu ==

[[File:Vlcmenu preferences osx.png|500px]]

This menu gives you access to all the settings that establish the
behaviour of types of commands. Most of these you will probably not need
to touch when you first start using the package, others you will want to
set as personal defaults and some you will want to set for a single use
only. Each section of preferences comes in two flavours, ordinary and
advanced. The ordinary preferences are settings for the simpler
parameters of the application, the advanced settings require some deeper
knowledge to use them effectively.

What you will notice is that in the preferences are items that are
simple to understand and use as well as items that probably require you
to be a developer to understand let alone use. Some I strongly suspect
are mainly for debugging purposes and may be better if they were moved
to such a section. The image above gives a beautiful example of this in
action: the first preference is about enabling and setting a default
output volume for the application, the second seems to be about a
hardware/software standard, originating from Philips, but whose utility
here escapes me even after after some web research. There may be a link
with the ability to detect Dolby which follows immediately after but
that doesn't go grey when the first is deselected so it is unclear.
Again the ability to deselect Dolby detection is unlikely to appeal to a
casual VLC user. There has been an attempt to separate these two types
of preference through an '''advanced''' items checkbox visible in the
image above. As you can see, since '''advanced''' is not selected, the
criteria used for choosing advanced preferences may not fit the casual
users perceptions

The preference sections are these:

:\* [[Vlc_MacOS_VLC_Prefs_audio'''Video''']] - which video to play
through which channels, :\* [[Vlc_MacOS_VLC_Prefs_input'''Stream
output''']] - setting up a specific type of output, :\*
[[Vlc_MacOS_VLC_Prefs_advanced'''Playlist''']] - managing a short list
of files for easy and quick access, :\*
[[Vlc_MacOS_VLC_Prefs_interface|'''Interface''']] - choosing and
configuring the alternate interfaces

</div> </div>
