Watermarking is like "tagging" a document by modifying it to carry a
hidden information (often few bytes). The document looks like original,
there is no attempt to make it unreadable or to restrict its usage. This
technology belongs to [[wikipedia:steganography|steganography]].

== Multimedia usage ==

Watermark is used to fight piracy by inserting private information in
the media file, which can identify its owner, buyer or creator for
example. Lets use an example.

You purchase an audio track on a online store on which you have a user
account. The audio track you get (mp3 file for example) is not a generic
one but a slightly modified one with your name, user-id or other hidden
in it. This file remains a fully playable and valid one with no
restriction, there is just some modifications in it you can't eared.

You have not the right to spread this file you bought. If this file is
found, freely available on a peer-to-peer network for example, the
online store can analyse it to retrieve hidden data and to identify you
as the owner, so maybe the one who initiate this illegal use of the
file.

The same can be done for other file types. Data is hidden depending on
the file format to generate a file usable and not different from the
original when it is rendered (from a human point of view).

== Efficiency ==

Here are items which can be used to compare efficiency of watermarking
systems: \* modifications should not be perceptible for a human, the
less perceptible the more efficient it is, \* it should not restrict
legal usages at all, \* hidden data should be difficult to delete and
should remain readable if file have been modified, resized, cropped,
converted in another file format. The more difficult the watermark is to
remove, the more efficient the watermarking is.

Also, for large media files, the faster it is to watermark the better it
is. It allows buyers not to wait hours their legal downloads.

[[Category:Glossary]] [[Category:Security]]
