{{See alsoCreative YUV}} {{Wikipedia|YUV}} YUV is a class of pixel
formats used in video applications, including {{VLC}}.

YUV is actually the name of the color space that is common to all "YUV"
pixel formats. Contrary to [[RGB]] formats (Red-Green-Blue), YUV colors
are represented with one "luminance" component called Y (equivalent to
grey scale) and two "chrominance" components, called U (blue projection)
and V (red projection) respectively, hence the name.

YUV can also be referred to as YCbCr, although the terms mean slightly
different things,<span
id="note1_backlink"></span><sup><small>[[#note1|&#x5B;note
1&#x5D;]]</small></sup> they tend to be confused and used
interchangeably (including in VLC-related venues).

This page explains the most useful YUV pixel formats in the context of
VLC media player. Unless otherwise stated, values for each component are
stored in one octet (8 bits).

== Planar formats ==

Planar (or sometimes "triplanar") formats use separate matrices for each
of the 3 color components. In other words, there is one table of
luminance pixel values, and two separate tables for the chrominance
components. This segregated representation in memory of pixels is more
convenient for video coding.

=== <span id="4:2:0"></span> YUV 4:2:0 (I420/J420/YV12) ===

==== I420 ==== It has the luma "luminance" plane '''''Y''''' first, then
the '''''U''''' chroma plane and last the '''''V''''' chroma plane.

The two chroma planes (blue and red projections) are sub-sampled in both
the horizontal and vertical dimensions by a factor of 2. That is to say,
for a 2×2 square of pixels, there are 4 Y samples but only 1 U sample
and 1 V sample.

This format requires 4×8+8+8=48 bits per 4 pixels, so its depth is 12
bits per pixel.

'''I420 is by far the most common format in VLC.''' Most video decoders
output raw pictures in I420 format.

A graphical illustration: Each letter represents one bit. \* For a
single I420 pixel: {{font colourYYYYYYYY}} {{font colourUU}} {{font
colourVV}} \* For a 50-pixel I420 frame: YYYYYYYY×50 UU×50 VV×50 (or
Y×8×50 U×2×50 V×2×50 for short) \* For an <var>n</var>-pixel I420 frame:
Y×8×<var>n</var> U×2×<var>n</var> V×2×<var>n</var>

==== J420 ==== J420 is exactly like I420, but with a full range
("digital", 0-255) luma ('''''Y''''') component instead of limited range
("analog", 16-240). The chroma planes are exactly the same as in I420.

==== YV12 ==== YV12 is exactly like I420, but the order of the '''U'''
and '''V''' planes is reversed. In the name, "YV" refers to the plane
order: Y, then V (then U). "12" refers to the pixel depth: 12-bits per
pixel as for I420.

=== <span id="4:2:2"></span> YUV 4:2:2 (I422/J422) === ==== I422 ====
Like I420, I422 has one luma plane '''''Y''''' and 2 chroma planes
'''U''', '''V'''.

However, in I422, chroma planes (blue and red projections) are
sub-sampled only in the horizontal dimension, still by a factor of 2.
Thus, there is the same amount of lines in chroma planes as in the luma
plane.

For a 2×2 group of pixels, there are 4 Y samples and 2 U and 2 V samples
each. The depth is 4×8+2×8+2×8=64 bits per 4 pixels, so 16 bits per
pixel.

Some video codecs support I422 (optionally) for higher quality video
encoding.

==== J422 ==== J422 is exactly like I422, but with a full range
("digital", 0-255) luma ('''''Y''''') component instead of limited range
("analog", 16-240). The chroma planes are exactly the same as in I422.

=== <span id="4:4:4"></span> YUV 4:4:4 === ==== I444 ==== As I420 and
I422, I444 has one luma plane '''''Y''''' and 2 chroma planes '''U'''
and '''V'''. Chroma planes are not sub-sampled: there are 3 octet values
for each pixels. The depth is thus 24 bits per pixel (as with RGB24 or
RGB32).

A few video codecs support I444 optionally.

== Packed formats == In packed formats, you usually have only one plane,
with all the luma and chroma data interleaved. This is similar to RGB
pixel formats, only using a different color space.

Packed formats are very popular inside ''webcams''. In hardware, using
separate planes is inefficient: several memory accesses are needed for
each pixel. Packed formats are easier and thus cheaper to use.

On the other hand, packet formats cannot normally deal with vertical
sub-sampling. Otherwise scan lines would have different sizes. So
generally, packed formats are horizontally subsampled, especially by a
factor of 2 (i.e., YUV 4:2:2).

=== UYVY === Known as ''UYVY'', ''Y422'' or ''UYNV''.

In UYVY, the chroma samples are sub-sampled by a factor of 2.

In UYVY, the succession for 2 pixels, starts by '''U''' then one luma if
the first pixel, then '''V''' and then another luma for the second
pixel.

=== YUY2 === Known as ''YUY2'', ''YUYV'', ''V422'' or ''YUNV''.

In YUY2, the chroma samples are sub-sampled by a factor of 2.

In YUY2, the succession for 2 pixels, starts by one luma for the first
pixel, then '''U''', then another luma for the second pixel and then
'''V''' again.

Conversion between YUY2 and UYVY is achieved by swapping bytes pairwise.

=== YVYU === YVYU is just like YUY2, but with '''U''' and '''V''' order
reversed.

=== VYUV === TBD.

== Semi-planar ==

Semi planar formats have two planes instead of three, one plane for
luminance, and one plane for both chrominance components. They are also
sometimes referred to as biplanar formats also.

=== NV12/NV21 ===

==== NV12 ==== Related to I420, NV12 has one luma "luminance" plane
'''''Y''''' and one plane with '''''U''''' and '''''V''''' values
interleaved.

In NV12, chroma planes (blue and red) are subsampled in both the
horizontal and vertical dimensions by a factor of 2.

For a 2×2 group of pixels, you have 4 Y samples and 1 U and 1 V sample.

It can be helpful to think of NV12 as I420 with the U and V planes
interleaved.

Here is a graphical representation of NV12. Each letter represents one
bit: \* For 1 NV12 pixel: {{font colourYYYYYYYY}} {{font colourUVUV}} \*
For a 2-pixel NV12 frame: {{font colourYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY}} {{font
colourUVUVUVUV}} \* For a 50-pixel NV12 frame: Y×8×50 (UV)×2×50 \* For a
<var>n</var>-pixel NV12 frame: Y×8×<var>n</var> (UV)×2×<var>n</var>

==== NV21 ====

NV21 is like [[NV12]], but with '''U''' and '''V''' order reversed: it
starts with '''V'''.

=== Other NV formats ===

Following the same pattern as NV12/NV21, there are NV16/NV61 (4:2:2
sub-sampling) and NV24/NV42 (4:4:4 sampling) formats. They are mostly
used in some funky cheap camera circuitry and not supported in VLC (as
of VLC version 2.0).

== Notes == <div class="plainlist"> \* <span
id="note1"></span><sup>[[#note1_backlinkchroma subsampling]] formats
(e.g. 4:2:0) are used only for digital signals; VLC deals with digital
signals.<br /><!---->In many cases: Y&prime;UV is for analog signals,
Y&prime;PbPr for analog signals in video component cables; Y&prime;CbCr
for digital signals (including [[MPEG-2]]). [[wikipedia:Gamma
correction|Gamma correction]] is indicated by a
prime&nbsp;<code>&prime;</code>, thus gamma-corrected YCbCr is written
<code>Y&prime;CbCr</code>. For an extended discussion see
[https://poynton.ca/PDFs/YUV_and_luminance_harmful.pdf YUV and luminance
considered harmful] or
[https://poynton.ca/notes/colour_and_gamma/ColorFAQ.html#RTFToC26 Color
FAQ &sect; What are colour differences?] by Charles Poynton </div>

== Further reading == \* https://fourcc.org/yuv.php

{{documentation}}
